In the last decades , number of drugs were withdrawn due to cases of TdP , leading to intensify assessment of drug QT interval . In our case , hydroxyzine was identified as the only drug able to induce QTc interval prolongation in the patients active medication . Moreover , a hydroxyzine overdose was detected probably due to high posology , bile ducts obstruction , and liver impairment -LRB- rise in GPT -RRB- . Cetirizine is the hydroxyzines major active metabolite ; unfortunately , its blood level dosage was not performed . We suppose that combination of hydroxyzine overdose and transient renal failure could have lead to cetirizine accumulation . However , cetirizine seems to be safe regarding ventricular repolarization , even at supratherapeutic dose . Theres only one published clinical case of hydroxyzine-induced QT prolongation . This case describes recurrent syncope during hydroxyzine treatment at usual posology in a 34-year-old woman presenting a hERG mutation . hERG gene codes for the subunit of a potassium channel -LRB- I Kr -RRB- implicated in the ventricular repolarization . Experimentally , it was shown that hydroxyzine could be proarrhythmic by blocking hERG channels and therefore prolonging action potential duration , thus inducing TdP . In the French pharmacovigilance database , we found 24 cases of QT prolongation mentioning hydroxyzine with a suspected accountability assumed in 7 cases . We publish here the first clinical case of hydroxyzineassociated QT prolongation with drug dosage data . The association of hydroxyzine , especially at high posology , and others already well-known TdP risks factors -LRB- including hypokalemia and bradycardia -RRB- could induce QT prolongation and lifethreatening TdP . The present work underlines the recent addition of hydroxyzine to the list of drugs with conditional risk of TdP and drugs to be avoided by patients with congenital long QT syndrome . It also reminds that recommended hydroxyzines posology must be respected , the risk of QT prolongation and syncope increases dramatically in case of an overdose . Finally , considering the large use of the molecule , the recurrence of hydroxyzine-induced QT prolongation is probably underestimated . Information must be given to clinician .