A lthough considered standard therapy for Stage D heart failure since 2008, the continuous, axial flow HeartMate II (HMII) left ventricular assist device (LVAD) has recently been associated with unexpected rise in rates of pump thrombosis. 1 With an incidence of 0.01 to 0.11 events per patient-year, LVAD thrombosis responds to intensification of antithrombotic therapy with unfractionated heparin (UFH), dual antiplatelet therapy with or without thrombolytics or glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition in <50% of cases, and is associated with nearly 50% 6-month mortality. 1 Therefore, surgical pump exchange or urgent transplantation remains the treatment of choice despite potential high risk and cost. Herein, we report the first successful experience using the potent P2Y12 ADP receptor inhibitor ticagrelor in addition to UFH and aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid ) to treat LVAD thrombosis and avoid pump exchange in 4 patients with confirmed or suspected HMII thrombosis.
A 28-year-old black man had HMII implanted as destination therapy for nonischemic cardiomyopathy before 7 days. Postsurgical course was complicated by slowly increasing LDH with peak of 980 U/L, requiring maintenance of UFH in addition to ASA 325 mg daily, dipyridamole, later switched to clopidogrel. Because LDH remained elevated and PRU was 321, ticagrelor was started (180 mg load and 90 mg twice daily) instead of clopidogrel. Five days later, LDH decreased (
and he was discharged on ASA, ticagrelor, and warfarin. At 7-month follow-up, there was no bleeding or device thrombosis with LDH of 286 U/L.
A 66-year-old black man with HMII for 947 days as destination therapy for nonischemic cardiomyopathy had a history of bleeding gastrointestinal arteriovenous malformations that required discontinuation of antiplatelet therapy. During the previous year, he had 3 admissions for asymptomatic LDH elevations with subtherapeutic international normalized ratios that resolved with UFH. In this index hospitalization, he presented with hematuria, worsening heart failure, LDH of 2951 U/L, and serum creatinine of 2.96 mg/dL. He was given ASA, clopidogrel, UFH, milrinone, and intra-aortic balloon pump. Because his PRU was 294, clopidogrel was changed to ticagrelor. On day 12, abciximab was given for 48 hours without success and he underwent attempted pump exchange on hospital day 15. In the operating room, the device was deeply embedded in adhesions. The surgeon noted that the urine was clearer and, given the risk of surgery, elected to abort the procedure. Over the next days, LDH started to decrease progressively, renal failure and heart failure symptoms resolved. He was discharged on ticagrelor, aspirin, and warfarin and at 9-month follow-up had no bleeding or hemolysis with LDH of 228 U/L. At month 12, he opted for hospice because of progressive right ventricular failure.
A 47-year-old white man with HIV had a HMII as destination therapy for 757 days without previous complications. During an asymptomatic clinic follow-up, his international normalized ratio of 1.8 and LDH 1196 U/L despite ASA 81 mg, clopidogrel 75 mg, and warfarin daily. On admission, his rotations per minute were 9400 and serum creatinine of 0.94 mg/dL. He A 46-year-old black man with nonischemic cardiomyopathy had HMII as destination therapy for 300 days. He was on clopidogrel, dipyridamole, and warfarin because of ASA allergy. On admission, he had New York Heart Association Class II symptoms, international normalized ratio of 2.1, LDH of 1373 U/L, and PRU of 164. Despite adequate platelet inhibition, we decided to substitute ticagrelor for clopidogrel and add UFH. Computed tomography revealed malpositioning of the inflow cannula, which was abutted against the left ventricular septum. LDH decreased within 5 days to baseline of 546 U/L and he was discharged on ticagrelor and subcutaneous enoxaparin but readmitted a week later undergoing LVAD exchange.
