A 40-year-old woman without a significant medical history showed a first-degree atrioventricular block at a regular check-up. An echocardiogram detected a right atrial mass, and thus, she was referred to our hospital for further examinations. She was asymptomatic. Physical examinations detected no significant abnormalities. Laboratory data on admission showed 0.5 mg/dL of C reactive protein, 5,300/μL of white blood cells, 185 IU/L of lactase dehydrogenase, 10.2 mg/dL of urea nitrogen, 0.6 mg/ dL of creatinine, and 221 pg/mL of brain natriuretic peptide. A chest X-ray showed enlarged bilateral hilar lymph nodes. An electrocardiogram revealed a first-degree atrioventricular block (PR: 440 msec) . A transthoracic echocardiogram showed normal wall motion and wall thickness of the left ventricle. A mass echo was detected in the right atrium. It was attached to the interatrial septum. The size of the mass was 12×12 mm ( A transesophageal echocardiogram was performed in order to carefully examine the mass echo attached to the interatrial septum. The interatrial septum close to the atrioventricular valves was thickened and it looked like a mass. In addition, the abnormal thickening of the tissue extended around the aortic annulus . Computed tomography (CT) showed multiple swollen lymph nodes in the mediastinum and hilar areas. There were also multiple nodular shadows in the lungs, liver, and spleen. We focused on the right atrial mass first, but thickening of the myocardium through the interatrial septum and aortic annulus, as well as lymphadenopathy, suggested the possibility of either cardiac sarcoidosis or cardiac lymphoma. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), lysozyme, and soluble interleukin-2 receptor were within the normal limits (ACE: 7.9 IU/L; lysozyme: 6.6 μg/mL; sIL-2R: 305 U/mL). Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) with gadolinium enhancement showed a T2 high intensity in the thickened interatrial septum, which extended to the interventricular septum and left ventricular anterior wall near the apex . Furthermore, transmural late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) was also detected in the interatrial septum and left ventricular anterior wall near the apex . Positron emission tomography (PET) CT with fluorine18-fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG) showed a multifocal intense uptake in the myocardium . Furthermore, the lungs, liver, spleen, and lymph nodes throughout the body showed an abnormal uptake. A thoracoscopic biopsy of the lung and mediastinal lymph node was performed for confirming the diagnosis. Granulomas were detected from the specimens . She was diagnosed to have cardiac sarcoidosis based on the following: histopathological evidence of lung sarcoidosis, electrocardiographic and echocardiographic abnormalities, a marked increase in myocardial FDP uptake by PET-CT, and late gadolinium enhancement in the myocardium by CMR. She was scheduled for steroid therapy, but two weeks after the thoracoscopic biopsy, she showed pre-syncope. An electrocardiogram indicated that the first-degree atrioventricular block had progressed (PR: 600 msec) , and electrocardiographic monitoring detected complete atrioventricular block . She was immediately treated with oral steroids (40 mg (1 mg/kg) predonisolone per day), which resulted in the successful elimination of the complete atrioventricular block and regression of the first-degree atrioventricular block (PR: 320 msec) . After two weeks of steroid therapy, the multifocal intense FDG uptake in the myocardium disappeared . A transthoracic echocardiogram showed a reduction of the right atrial mass . The dose of prednisolone was reduced by 5 mg every two weeks.
