A 14-year-old boy with a history of tetralogy of Fallot and a complete atrioventricular septal defect was initially palliated with a modified Blalock-Taussig shunt and subsequently received an The patient met 2 minor modified Duke criteria for IE (predisposing heart condition and elevated rheumatoid factor). As an alternative diagnosis could not be identified, empirical treatment of culturenegative endocarditis was initiated on hospital day 4 with a regimen of ceftriaxone, doxycycline, and synergistic gentamicin. On hospital day 5, the B henselae serologies returned highly positive, with an IgM titer of 1:32 (reference < 1:16) and an IgG titer of >1:1024 (reference <1:64). A peripherally inserted central catheter was placed for intravenous antibiotic therapy and the patient was discharged on hospital day 6. A repeat TTE before discharge was unchanged. An improvement in exercise tolerance, shortness of breath, appetite, and energy level was noted <1 week after initiating antibiotic therapy; however, this did not recover to his previous baseline. C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate demonstrated a downward trend. Repeat TTE 3 weeks after discharge revealed an unchanged degree of RVOT obstruction and Melody valve appearance. The patient and family agreed with the recommendation for surgical valve replacement. He completed a total of 2 weeks of gentamicin, 6 weeks of ceftriaxone, and 8 weeks of doxycycline before surgical repair.
After uncomplicated removal of the Melody valve ( , a 23-mm right ventricle to pulmonary artery pulmonary homograft was placed. Cultures obtained from the surgical specimen demonstrated no organisms on Gram stain; anaerobic, fungal, and acid-fast bacteria cultures were negative. Pathology of the Melody valve demonstrated dystrophic calcification and suppurative inflammation with degeneration of the surrounding vessel wall. B henselae was subsequently detected in the excised specimen via 16S rRNA and ribC polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The discharge TTE demonstrated a mild RVOT gradient with normal right-sided cardiac function. His doxycycline course was continued on discharge for an additional 6 months of therapy with serial Bartonella titers followed as an outpatient.
