A 12-year-old girl of poor socioeconomic status from the northern part of India presented with insidious onset facial puffiness, pedal edema, and increasing abdominal girth of 3-year duration. During the past 6 months, she had 3 episodes of spontaneous onset fast irregular palpitations associated with transient loss of consciousness. Physical examination of the grossly malnourished child revealed severe pallor, bilateral pitting pedal edema up to the ankle, and the absence of cyanosis or clubbing. Cardiovascular system examination revealed elevated jugular venous pulse with prominent A wave, prominent precordial pulsations in the left parasternal area in the third and the fourth intercostal space, and apical impulse in the left fifth intercostal space 11 cm lateral to midsternal line with normal size and contour. Right heart border could be percussed in right parasternal area 9 cm lateral to sternal border; auscultation was unremarkable except for the presence of right ventricular (RV) third heart sound and short systolic murmur in tricuspid area. Abdominal examination revealed massive ascites with fluid thrill and hepatomegaly. To summarize, clinical impression was of a cachexic child with chronic right heart failure, massive ascites, hepatomegaly, cardiac enlargement, and ectopic pulsations in RV outflow tract area . Electrocardiogram  showed sinus rhythm, right-axis deviation, and qr in V1 suggesting right atrial enlargement and nonspecific ST/T changes. Chest x-ray  showed massive cardiomegaly with grossly enlarged right heart border. Blood investigation showed severe anemia (hemoglobin, 6.8 g %) and eosinophilia (absolute eosinophil count of 531 per mm 3 ). Transthoracic echocardiographic examination revealed congested inferior vena cava with partial inspiratory collapse, obliteration of apex, and most part of inflow tract of RV by dense fibrous tissue with echobright endocardial border and apical dimple, leaving behind tiny residual RV inflow cavity ( –2C; Movie I in the Data Supplement). In parasternal short-axis view ( ; Movie II in the Data Supplement), huge right atrium, dilated RV outflow tract, and relatively small pulmonary arteries could be related to body, head, and trunk of elephant, respectively (elephant appearance). Right atrium was humongously dilated with dense spontaneous echo contrast and large adherent thrombus ( ; Movie III in the Data Supplement). Pericardial effusion was present posterior to RV. Color Doppler examination ( ; Movie IV in the Data Supplement) revealed low-velocity significant tricuspid regurgitation. Restrictive filling pattern was noted across tricuspid valve with tricuspid E/A ratio >2, deceleration time <140 ms, and reduced septal and lateral E′ on tissue Doppler imaging ( ; Figure I in the Data Supplement). Diastolic forward flow into pulmonary artery, driven by atrial systolic contraction, was demonstrated on M-mode color Doppler echocardiography and continuous-wave Doppler imaging ( and 4B; Movie V in the Data Supplement); similarly, diastolic pulmonary valve opening was seen on pulmonary valve M-mode echocardiography . Left atrium and ventricle were spared with normal left ventricular dimension, ejection fraction, diastolic function, and no mitral regurgitation. Cardiac magnetic resonance ( and 5B) demonstrated similar findings with characteristic obliteration of RV apex and inflow tract with apical dimpling and sparing of left ventricle. On the basis of classical clinical and echocardiographic findings, diagnosis of isolated RV endomyocardial fibrosis was confirmed, and the child was managed with vigorous decongestive treatment and anticoagulation. In the absence of nearly any functional RV cavity, heart transplantation was the only distant curative option left for the patient. Palliative surgical options and high surgical risk of death and complication were discussed with parents, and they choose to continue medical management.
