Our patient was a morbidly obese 29-year-old man who weighed 149 kg and had a body mass index (BMI) of 40 kg/m 2 at presentation. He was previously diagnosed with HCM at 12 years of age, but was subsequently lost to follow-up. In 2010, he developed bilateral deep vein thromboses, where the diagnosis of protein S deficiency was made. He was put on long-term anticoagulation, but lacked compliance to medication. In November 2012, he complained of breathlessness that was made worse on exertion. A clinical diagnosis of CHF was made. Echocardiography showed marked asymmetric septal hypertrophy (septal wall thickness and posterior wall thickness measured 23 mm and 14 mm, respectively; the septal to posterior wall thickness ratio was 1.64), systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve, moderately severe posteriorly-directed mitral regurgitation, and pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 69 mmHg. Left ventricular (LV) systolic function was hyperdynamic, and the maximum pressure gradient across the LV outflow tract was 57 mmHg ( . There was no 'ground glass' appearance of the myocardium. Diastolic dysfunction was evident based on the presence of restrictive filling pattern (mitral E/A ratio of 2.15 and short mitral deceleration time of 158 ms) and elevated mitral E/E' ratio of 15.6 and 18.7 at the septal and lateral mitral annuli, respectively, indicating high filling pressures . However, these findings are nonspecific and may be widely observed in familial HCM. A diagnosis of diastolic CHF and obstructive HCM was made. Notably, he had a similar presentation at another hospital, ten months before presenting at our institution. At presentation to our institution, the patient responded to diuretic and noninvasive positive pressure ventilation. He underwent a right heart study that confirmed the diagnosis of severe pulmonary hypertension (the mean pulmonary artery pressure was 61 mmHg), although the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was elevated at 41 mmHg. Systemic blood pressure was 120/87 mmHg. The ensuing endomyocardial biopsy taken from the right ventricular septum showed nonspecific, mildly hypertrophied myocytes with diameters ranging from 20 μm to 30 μm and containing enlarged nuclei. Neither obvious myofibre disarray nor small intramural coronary arteriole dysplasia was observed . The final diagnosis was diastolic CHF and asymmetric LV hypertrophy contributed to by morbid obesity and possibly obstructive sleep apnoea, where the cardiac morphology mimicked familial hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM).
