P heochromocytoma is a catecholamine-secreting tumor, with highly variable clinical expression leading to its designation as the great mimicker. A given patient may be completely asymptomatic or present with abdominal, metabolic, and cardiovascular manifestations because of catecholamine excess, such as paroxysmal or sustained hypertension and heart failure or life-threatening arrhythmias. Drugs interfering with adrenergic stimuli may worsen a patient's condition. In our case report, a patient with a pheochromocytoma presented with acute and sudden heart failure and the delay in diagnosis led to a progression of catecolaminergic myocardial injury until mass resection.
A 54-year-old woman with no significant past medical history went to the hospital because of nausea and prolonged vomit. On admission, she was treated with antiemetic drugs (metoclopramide) and suddenly developed acute heart failure that progressed to cardiogenic shock. She clinically improved with initiation of inotrope support. Serum laboratory testing was notable for leukocytosis and troponin I elevation (62.5ng/mL). The ECG showed no evidence of ischemia or prior infarct. Echocardiogram and cardiac MRI showed normal left ventricular dimensions and mild systolic dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction, 40%) because of akinesia of mid inferolateral wall and hypokinesia of mid anterolateral and inferior walls. Myocardial edema was present in the inferolateral wall , corresponding with a midwall stria of late gadolinium enhancement ( and 1C). No coronary angiography was performed because of a straight nonischemic pattern of myocardial edema and necrosis. The patient was discharged from the hospital with diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease and viral myocarditis and treated with a proton-pump inhibitor and a β-blocker. A week later, the patient was readmitted to the hospital for lumbar pain and mild dyspnea on exertion. She also had orthostatic hypotension and transient episodes of headache and limb tremors associated with hypertension. An abdominal ultrasound revealed an incidental mass above the right adrenal gland. A catecholamine-producing tumor was suspected and the patient was referred to specialists for further evaluation. The ECG showed T-wave inversion in the lateral leads. Serum laboratory testing showed troponin I elevation. Computed tomographic scan of the abdomen revealed a heterogeneous mass lesion (4×3cm) over the right adrenal gland, consistent with a neuroendocrine tumor. Urine catecholamines levels were high (epinephrine, 5352nmol/24 h; norepinephrine, 3206nmol/24 h) and urine metanephrines were 4-fold higher than the normal ranges. A second cardiac MRI was performed showing hypokinesia of mid segments of the anterior, lateral, and inferior walls with mild systolic dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction, 47%). On tissue characterization sequences, tissue edema  and late gadolinium enhancement were still present, with an increased amount compared with the first cardiac MRI ( and 1F). Given these findings, pheochromocytoma causing myocarditis was considered the most likely diagnosis and the patient was referred for laparoscopic resection of the mass . Pathology examination confirmed the diagnosis and the patient was discharge home on day 16 without symptoms. After 6 months, another cardiac MRI showed persistence of scar areas without edema.
