There are three affected males in this family spanning two generations . The first affected member of the family was diagnosed with BMD at 6 years owing to mild skeletal muscle weakness (II-3). His serum creatine kinase (CK) was extremely elevated (38 000 IU l − 1 ). Dystrophin immunostaining in a muscle biopsy was consistent with BMD, and the dystrophin level was quantified as 3–10% of normal by western blot (Athena Diagnostics, Worcester, MA, USA). He was diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, but otherwise remained relatively symptom free for a long time. At 12 years, however, he developed persistent cough resistant to conventional bronchodilator treatment. Chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly, for which he was referred to cardiology. Initial echocardiogram revealed dilated left ventricle (LV) with severely diminished LV systolic function (LV shortening fraction (LVSF) of o10%). His clinical status continued to deteriorate despite maximum anti-congestive medications, and he was admitted for further management of intractable CHF. Hemodynamic assessment by cardiac catheterization showed severe LV dysfunction: LV end diastolic pressure (LVEDP) 35 mm Hg and cardiac index (CI) 1.8 l min − 1 m −2 under mechanical ventilation and continuous intravenous inotrope infusion. He died at age 14 due to a cerebral thromboembolic event despite maximum medical treatment while awaiting a heart transplant. His younger brother (II-4; 14 years) was diagnosed as BMD at 3 years of age with mild muscle weakness and failure to thrive. He has cognitive impairment with function in the range of 6–8 years old (at 14 years old) and a seizure disorder of unknown etiology. His cardiac status has been followed closely since 6 years of age because of his brother's history of early onset of progressive DCM. Sequencing (Emory Genetics Laboratory, Decatur, GA, USA) revealed a novel frameshift mutation in exon 27 of the DMD gene (c.3779_3785delCTTTGGAinsGG) in which seven base pairs are deleted and two are inserted . This predicts an aminoacid substitution and premature termination in the novel reading frame eight codons downstream (p.Thr1260Argfs*8). No other potential disease-causing variants were found in the gene. Despite this predicted truncation of protein translation, immunofluorescence studies of a quadriceps muscle biopsy at age 14 instead showed reduced staining for dystrophin and other proteins of the dystrophin– glycoprotein complex and upregulation of utrophin consistent with BMD . The greatest reduction in dystrophin immunofluorescence (perhaps absence of staining) was with an antibody that detects an epitope encoded by exons 27–28 . Dystrophin epitopes on either side of exons 27–28 were present ( –e, and g). Dystrophin was also detected in western blots from the same muscle biopsy using a carboxy-terminus antibody. The total amount of the patient's dystrophin was greatly reduced, and the molecular weight appeared to be slightly reduced (data not shown). He had normal cardiac function through age 11, after which progressive LV systolic dysfunction and dilatation were noted by echocardiogram. His symptoms of CHF continued to worsen over the next 2 years despite escalating medical treatment, and he was admitted to the hospital at 14 years because of severe respiratory distress and cardiac cachexia. Echocardiogram showed markedly dilated LV (LV internal diameter in diastole 7.7 cm: z-score +9.1) with severely diminished LV systolic function (LVSF 15%). Initial hemodynamic assessment by cardiac catheterization was consistent with mild to moderate LV dysfunction under continuous intravenous milrinone infusion (LVEDP 12 mm Hg and CI 2.1 l min − 1 m −2 ). His clinical condition deteriorated despite maximum medical treatment including mechanical ventilation, and eventually he underwent implantation of left ventricular assist device (Heartware HVAD, Framingham, MA, USA). He was discharged home with improved quality of life. The 7-year-old nephew (III-1) of these two affected boys was born to their sister and was diagnosed as BMD in his early childhood. He failed to thrive despite maximizing nutritional efforts (o1st percentile) and showed generalized muscle weakness and mild developmental delay. At 18 months he was noted to have serum CK above13 000 IU l − 1 , and he has been followed regularly since that time with a presumed diagnosis of BMD. Molecular analysis revealed identical familial frameshift mutation in DMD to his uncle (II-4). At 18 months he was noted to have serum CK above 13 000 IU l − 1 , and he has been followed regularly since that time with a presumed diagnosis of BMD. A recent echocardiogram was normal (7 years old). Female carriers in the family, the siblings' mother (I-2) and their sister (II-1), have had no symptoms of muscle weakness or CHF. There is no further family history is available for I-2, as she was adopted in her early childhood. Clinical manifestations and laboratory data of three BMD patients are summarized in .
