The patient is the third child born to unrelated Irish parents. Foetal heart abnormalities were identified on an anomaly scan at 31-weeks gestation, which prompted foetal echocardiography. A normally situated heart with normal systemic and pulmonary venous drainage was reported. Right to left shunting was noted at the patent foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus, consistent with gestational age. The left ventricle and left atrium were severely dilated with moderate–severe mitral regurgitation. There was severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction, but no evidence of pericardial effusion or ascites. Rhythm was normal sinus with a foetal heart rate between 100 and 120 beats per minute and subsequent weekly foetal echocardiogram showed no further progression of cardiac dysfunction or development of hydrops. Cardiac MRI at 32-weeks gestation showed marked left ventricular hypertrophy and dilation. A clinical diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy was considered and the parents were counselled that the prognosis for postpartum survival was poor. The proband was born by elective caesarean section at 37 + 6 weeks gestation with a birth weight of 2620 g (9th–25th centile) and occipital circumference of 34.5 cm (50th–75th centile). He had no dysmorphic features. He was transferred to neonatal intensive care on 100 % oxygen to maintain his saturations in the low 90 s. An additional heart sound and loud murmur were noted, along with hepatomegaly (4 cm below costal margin) but without splenomegaly. By 12 h of age, his condition had deteriorated significantly; echocardiogram showed dilation of the inferior vena cava, hepatic veins, right atrium and interatrial septal bowing. He had moderate tricuspid regurgitation and very poor biventricular function with noncompaction hypertrophy. The proband died the following evening following withdrawal of life support with parental consent. At postmortem examination, the heart weighed 43 g (normal = 13.9 ± 5.8 g). The right atrium was particularly enlarged. The endocardium of the right atrium but particularly also the right ventricle showed fibroelastosis. The right ventricle was remarkably diminutive and underdeveloped. The right atrium had a 7-mm-diameter patent foramen ovale. There was obvious non-compaction of the hypertrophic left ventricular myocardium . Cardiac muscle, skeletal muscle and a skin biopsy were referred for laboratory investigations. Informed consent was obtained from the parents for the clinical and laboratory investigations and publication of the results.
