A 54-year-old female was admitted to our hospital for the diagnosis and treatment of HF. Her medical history began three years earlier with acute MI confirmed by coronary angiography (total occlusion of the right coronary artery with collateral circulation from the left descending coronary artery). The patient had not undergone any coronary intervention. During hospitalisation, when MI was diagnosed, the patient was classified as Class III according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification. Further examination revealed an elevated level of Nterminal-pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP, 10581 pg/mL), cardiac enlargement with an increased left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (LVEDD, 81 mm), low left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF, 25%) with akinesis of the inferior, inferoseptal and inferolateral walls, and severe global hypokinesis of other walls of the left ventricle. Since then, the patient had been treated for CAD, as well as for arterial hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, ventricular arrhythmia (carvedilol, ramipril, spironolactone, furosemide, atorvastatin, trimetazidine, aspirin). Two months later, during her admission to our hospital, all parameters had improved (NYHA class II, NT-proBNP 1869 pg/mL, LVEDD 73 mm, LVEF 35% with inferior and inferolateral wall akinesis and moderate hypokinesis of other walls). Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) performed in our department showed late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) in the inferoseptal (mid-wall), inferior (sub-endocardial) and inferolateral (transmural) walls . There was no history of recent infection or fever, but we observed LV dilatation, a characteristic pattern of LGE for myocarditis in the inferoseptal and inferior walls, as well as persistence of a slightly elevated concentration of troponin I (0.014 ng/mL). Echocardiography revealed a low correlation between the coronary artery changes and cardiac contractility. All of the above-mentioned factors raised the suspicion of myocarditis and triggered a decision to perform a endomyocardial biopsy (EMB). However, the EMB did not confirm the suspicion in keeping with the Dallas (presence of myocytolysis and myocardial fibrosis only) and immunohistochemical criteria (no CD3, CD4, CD8-positive cells, single LCA, CD68-positive cells) . Electron microscopy of EMB samples revealed ultrastructural changes in all elements of the heart tissue (myofibrils, nucleus, mitochondrion, endoplasmic reticulum, intercellular connection, blood vessels), but no virus was detected . HF and CAD treatment was administered according to the guidelines of the European Society of Cardiology. However, three months later the patient was rehospitalised because of HF exacerbation (NYHA Class III, NT-proBNP 1980 pg/dL, troponin 3 ng/mL, LVEDD 77 mm, LVEF 30%, 8048 ventricular extrasystoles without complex forms on 24-hour Holter ECG monitoring). The results of coronary angiography resembled these observed in the previous examination. Because we were unable to determine the reason for the exacerbation, a real-time polymerase chain reaction examination (qPCR) was performed to detect viral nucleic acids in the samples collected during the previous EMB. Examination of frozen specimens with qPCR revealed the presence of HEV RNA, and viral cardiomyopathy was diagnosed . Based on these new findings, treatment with interferon-β was introduced according to the following scheme: 62.5 μg (0.25 mL) in the first week, 125 μg (0.5 mL) in the second and third weeks, and 187.5 μg (0.75 mL) subcutaneously every other day from the fourth to the twenty-fourth week. 5 In the fourth month of the treatment, EMB was performed and no HEV RNA was detected in the heart tissue samples. After six months of treatment with interferon-β, the patient had improved significantly: NYHA class I, NT-proBNP 512 pg/mL, LVEDD 68 mm, LVEF 45%. A decrease in the number of ExV in 24-hour Holter recording was also observed (1889 ExV, without complex forms). No adverse drug reactions occurred. The two-year follow-up was uneventful.
