Hidalgo-García L et al. Recurrent Infective Endocarditis due … Klin Padiatr 2015; 227: 89–92 of the heart. All but one patient, with a previous history of recurrent skin and soft tissue infections, had congenital heart disease. These 3 cases were treated with surgery and combined intravenous antibiotics (median 56 days (range 42 to 62 days) with a good overall outcome, except for one patient who had a residual tricuspid valve regurgitation. No information was available regarding management and outcome of the fourth patient. In our patient repeated prolonged treatment with a combination of 2 antibiotics, according to the IE guidelines for staphylococci infections of prosthetic valves was administered . However, removal of the prosthetic material was necessary in order to clear the infection. A. aphrophilus is a member of the HACEK group, which are fastidious gram negative microorganisms that colonize the oropharynx and have long been recognised as a cause of IE . This manifestation and cerebral abscesses are the most frequent invasive infections due to A. aphrophilus. The most prevalent risk factor of IE due to A. aphrophilus and other members of the HACEK group is congenital heart diseases, however a significant proportion of paediatric IE caused by these microorganisms occurred in patients with normal hearts . Current guidelines recommend the use of ceftriaxone as the first line therapy for IE due to the HACEK group, taking into account their potential to produce beta lactamases and the difficulty in the interpretation of the antibiotic sensitivity . In the subgroup of paediatric IE, A. aphrophilus is the 3 rd most relevant HACEK pathogen after K. kingae and H. parainfluenzae with 6 cases reported . Median age was 11,5 years (range 7 to 13 years) and a previous history of congenital heart disease was identified in 5 patients. IE localizations were identified in 2 patients (native mitral and/or tricuspid valve), whereas no details regarding infection sites were available in the remaining 4 patients. All cases were managed with long term antibiotics (median 62 days, range 56 to 78 days) and surgical intervention was only performed in one patient. Outcome was favourable for 5 of the 6 patients and the remaining one was left with severe residual mitral regurgitation. Although the reported patient recovered uneventfully with medical management after the first episode of IE due to A. aphrophilus, the outcome and prognosis of children with IE due to HACEK group members is variable; with half of them suffering from important complications and mortality rates of 10– 12.5 %
. Stroke and septic embolisms were the most common complications and occurred in up to 28 and 17.5 % of cases, respectively. Surgical procedures were required in one third of the patients, increasing to 54 % in those children who developed complications . Mortality rate of HACEK endocarditis in adults is significantly lower compared to IE due to no HACEK (4 vs. 18 %), but a high rate of stroke (25 vs. 17 %) and immunologic and/or vascular manifestations (32 vs. 20 %) have been observed . In conclusion, paediatric IE can be caused by uncommon microorganisms producing severe complications and being potentially fatal. Therefore, the isolation of S. lugdunensis or A. aphrophilus from blood cultures in febrile children should be considered rele vant and cardiac involvement has to be ruled out. Those patients with proved IE will require prolonged intravenous antibiotic courses and in complicated cases surgical intervention may be needed. Early diagnosis and initiation of appropriate management is mandatory for a good clinical outcome of these patients.
