After a healthy pregnancy, a 3.11 kilogram term infant was born via normal spontaneous vaginal delivery (Apgar scores of 7, 8, and 9) and was persistently cyanotic with oxygen saturation 76 % in room air. Supplemental oxygen led to only mild improvement, prompting echocardiogram (ECHO). Referring hospital's ECHO showed a hypertrophied interventricular septum, with concern for an intracardiac mass. She was transferred on prostaglandins (PGE) to the Children's Hospital of Wisconsinmanagement. A repeat 2D ECHO demonstrated severe concentric biventricular hypertrophy with a septal thickness of 1.35 cm with small RV cavity and mid RV outflow tract narrowing, although without obstruction. The left ventricular (LV) cavity also had mid-cavitary narrowing without obstruction. The infant had a patent foramen ovale with right-to-left shunting, leading to cyanosis.  Despite PGE therapy, no ductus arteriosus was seen; furthermore, no intracardiac tumor was seen. As no maternal history of diabetes existed to explain the biventricular hypertrophy, the diagnosis of HCM was suspected. The baby was started on beta-blocker therapy. At hospital discharge (day of life 11), she no longer required oxygen. Family history, obtained in the CHW Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), was significant on the paternal side for the grandmother, two great uncles, and a great grandfather having HCM. In fact, the grandmother reported having a surgical myomectomy, as well as mitral valve repair with later mechanical valve replacement. The patient also had four reportedly healthy siblings, none of whom had seen a cardiologist. Genetics consultation was, therefore, requested for this newborn and her family. Biomarker testing discovered a novel mutation in the MYH7 gene for this newborn, coding for the beta-myosin heavy chain. The mutation was a substitution in exon 36 in the gene, resulting in the replacement of a glutamic acid codon with a lysine codon at amino acid position 1,752 (c.5254G [ A; Glu1752Lys; NM_000257.2). The variant was not found in 10,000 reference alleles in the Exome Variant Server (http://evs.gs. washington.edu/EVS), and similar mutations in the same region have been suggested as causing HCM .What is interesting is the fact that Glu1752Val and Glu1753Lys have been reported by others as likely causing HCM, suggesting that the amino acid 1752—note that Glu changed to Val, not Lys as in our case—is important for healthy protein function and that the region (including amino acids 1,752 and 1,753) is an important functional domain of the protein. Acting upon clinical suspicion based on family history, all siblings and the father were evaluated with ECHO. Although each was asymptomatic, ECHO suggested that two of the children and the father were also affected. Subsequently, this same gene mutation was seen for these three and was also later found for the paternal grandmother. These newly diagnosed asymptomatic family members, discussed below, illustrate the variability of the HCM phenotype at presentation.
The father is an asymptomatic overweight (body mass index 40 kg/m 2 ), 31-year-old male with hypertension, who apparently had been screened with ECHO at age 5 years after his mother's diagnosis with HCM. Having a single negative ECHO in childhood, he never had cardiology follow-up recommended, despite his strong family history. His physical exam was significant for obesity, bradycardia, and only a soft, mid-sternal, systolic murmur. His ECHO revealed severe asymmetric septal hypertrophy, mild LV outflow tract obstruction (11 mmHg peak gradient), good LV systolic function, but abnormal LV diastolic filling, consistent with HCM. Testing was performed to determine his risk for sudden cardiac death. A 24-h Holter monitor demonstrated no episodes of tachycardia. On Bruce protocol exercise stress test, he reached 94 % of predicted, with maximum workload 10.0 METs, and had blunted peak blood pressure at 140/84. Finally, his cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated significant septal hypertrophy and global LV mass index 127 g/m 2. There was diffuse delayed enhancement (representing myocardial scar) involving the LV myocardium. Both RV and LV outflow tracts were widely patent . He was deemed to be at an increased risk of sudden cardiac death because of the presence of severe LVH with septal thickness [3 cm, diffuse LV delayed enhancement on cardiac MRI, and mildly reduced blood pressure response to exercise . AICD placement was recommended, along with restriction from strenuous activities, and preventative health measures were encouraged.
The brother, an asymptomatic 6.8-year-old child with a normal cardiac examination without murmurs, had an electrocardiogram (EKG) showing LVH. His ECHO revealed mild LVH, especially of the septum, but good biventricular systolic function and no outflow tract obstruction, despite slight anterior motion of the mitral valve.
The sister, an almost five-year-old asymptomatic girl, had a normal clinical examination and EKG, but was found on ECHO to have mildly increased LV trabeculations, concerning for possible LV non-compaction. Biennial followup is recommended for the children.
