A 41-year-old male with nonischemic cardiomyopathy and left ventricular assist device on coumadin presented with constitutional symptoms for 1 week. Blood cultures were drawn. The next day, he developed severe headache (Hunt–Hess grade II), and noncontrast head computed tomography (CT) showed Fisher grade II subarachnoid hemorrhage over bilateral frontal convexities. International Normalized Ratio was 9. The blood cultures grew methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus within a day. He was diagnosed with an infected left ventricular assist device and started on intravenous vancomycin. Brain CT angiography was negative for any vessel abnormality. Cerebral angiography on post bleed day 1 showed areas of subocclusive emboli in the left M3 segment of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) and left pericallosal artery, but did not reveal any identifiable source for subarachnoid hemorrhage. On post bleed day 2, the patient developed left frontal seizures that eventually progressed to status epilepticus. Repeat CT head showed a new intraparenchymal hemorrhage within the left frontal operculum, measuring 1.8 cm in diameter. Repeat cerebral angiography on post bleed day 2 revealed a new left M3 fusiform mycotic aneurysm (MA) in the exact location of the previously seen left M3 segment embolus. The pericallosal branch embolus had progressed to near vessel occlusion rather than aneurysm formation. The patient's family withdrew care because of his poor cardiac and neurological status . A 31-year-old female with history of Tetrology of Fallot that had been repaired when she was a child, and previous infective endocarditis secondary to intravenous drug abuse requiring aortic valve replacement, presented with constitutional symptoms after relapsing with intravenous drug abuse. Blood cultures grew Streptococcus viridans and peptostreptococcus, and she was diagnosed with prosthetic aortic valve infective endocarditis along with perivalvular abscess. She was started on intravenous ceftriaxone. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain was performed for a recent episode of transient aphasia and showed multiple punctate foci of susceptibility in bilateral cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres compatible with microhemmorhages, and 1 foci of old left posterior parieto-occipital subarachnoid hemorrhage. Brain magnetic resonance angiography was negative for any vessel abnormality. Cerebral angiography demonstrated 1 fusiform MA (2 mm) of the right M4 parieto-occipital MCA branch, and 1 saccular MA (2 mm) of the left superior M2 MCA branch. Medical management with antibiotics was recommended given the risk of surgical/endovascular treatment and because cardiac surgery was not imminent. Repeat cerebral angiography 2 weeks later was stable, however, repeat cerebral angiography 4 weeks from the first angiogram showed significant enlargement of the right MCA MA, whereas the left MCA MA had completely resolved. The right MCA aneurysm was treated with coiling and Onyx embolization. She underwent aortic valve replacement the next day . Follow-up angiography a month after treatment showed no residual or new aneurysms.
