Case 1 A 78-year-old female with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on home oxygen presented with a 1-week history of progressive shortness of breath, worsening productive cough and decreasing exercise tolerance. The patient was hemodynamically stable and her examination was grossly unremarkable apart from decreased breathe sounds bilaterally. The laboratory values were within normal limits. A chest X-ray showed chronic left basilar opacity, her electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm and she was admitted for COPD exacerbation. Her first set of blood cultures grew Staphylococcus hominis , which was confirmed by a repeat blood culture. In view of the positive blood cultures and recent onset of symptoms, she was further evaluated with a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) which showed an oscillating mass arising from the ventricular surface of the posterior cusp of the pulmonary valve, which was demonstrated by the mid-esophageal short-axis view at 50 degrees ( a), the mid-esophageal right ventricular outflow view at 79 degrees ( fig. 1 b) and the transgastric short-axis view at 20 degrees ( fig. 1 c). The remaining valves did not have any evidence of vegetations. The patient fulfilled the 2 major Dukes Criteria
(positive blood culture and echocardiographic demonstration of a mass) and was diagnosed with PVE. She commenced intravenous vancomycin for a total duration of 6 weeks and was doing well at each subsequent follow-up. A 33-year-old female with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis and ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 25% was admitted for elective mitral and tricuspid valve repair. She had been diagnosed with hidradenitis suppurativa about 2 weeks prior to the index admission. Her blood cultures were positive for coagulase-negative staphylococcus at that time, for which she had completed a 2-week course of intravenous vancomycin. On this admission, the patient was hemodynamically stable, her clinical examination was unremarkable apart from an apical systolic murmur radiating to her axilla, and blood cultures were negative. Her preoperative coronary angiogram revealed 2 vessel diseases in the right coronary and left circumflex artery. She underwent mitral valve repair with a 26-mm annuloplasty band and tricuspid valve repair with a 26-mm tricuspid ring in addition to coronary artery bypass grafting. Routine postoperative transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) at 1 week showed mild pulmonary regurgitation ( fig. 2 a). The parasternal short-axis view showed a filamentous echogenic mobile mass of 1.1 cm originating from the right postemodified parasternal right ventricular outflow view showing a mass attached to the pulmonary valve.
