An 88-year-old man with gallstones was scheduled for cholecystectomy. The patient had been hospitalized for coronary angiography after preoperative screening echocardiography revealed LV asynergy in the posterolateral and apical walls. He had not previously noticed any chest pain or dyspnea on effort; however, his personal history included rheumatic fever at 30 years of age and tuberculosis at 86 years of age. In addition, a high-density substance in the apical portion of the heart had been identified on a computed tomography (CT) scan performed at 65 years of age, which showed no other cardiovascular pathologies, including pericarditis or hemopericardium (after trauma or cardiac surgery). He was then diagnosed with apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy on an electrocardiogram and echocardiography, although no specific treatments were started. On a physical examination, the patient's blood pressure was 120/74 mmHg and his heart rate was 68 bpm. Auscultation revealed no cardiac murmurs or lung rales, and no rashes or lymphadenopathy were noted. The remaining findings of the physical examination were within the normal ranges, and a chest Xray disclosed no increases in heart size or evidence of calcification in the cardiac silhouette. In contrast, an electrocardiogram showed abnormal Q waves in leads I and aVL and Division of Cardiology, Shimane University Faculty of Medicine, Japan and Clinical Laboratory Department, Shimane University Hospital, Japan Received for publication September 24, 2014; Accepted for publication October 26, 2014 Correspondence to Dr. Shimpei Ito, shimpei@med.shimane-u.ac.jpnegative T waves in leads V3-6 . Nevertheless, 24hour Holter monitoring recorded no life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, and the values of hematological parameters, including eosinophils and blood chemistry data, such as the serum urea nitrogen, creatinine, bilirubin, total protein, albumin, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and thyroid and parathyroid hormone levels, were within the normal limits. Furthermore, the B-type natriuretic peptide level was 118 pg/mL, and tests for antinuclear antibodies and rheumatoid factor were negative. A transthoracic echocardiographic examination showed a LV diastolic diameter of 64 mm, systolic diameter of 45 mm, end-diastolic volume of 80 mL, end-systolic volume of 43 mL and ejection fraction of 46%. The left atrium (LA) was also dilated (LA diameter: 43 mm, LA volume index: 57 mL/m 2 ), although the mitral inflow pattern was consistent with the patient's age (E wave peak:
