A teenage boy with DMD who had been followed up for nine months and relied on a power wheelchair was admitted to our hospital due to a transient loss of consciousness. A physical examination showed a BMI of 30.8 (height: 155 cm and weight: 73.9 kg), blood pressure of 123/73 mmHg and pulse rate of 136/min. Pulse oximetry revealed an arterial oxygen saturation of 99% and blood sampling disclosed mild anemia (hemoglobin level, 11.3 g/dL), liver injury (aspartate aminotransferase level, 47 IU/L; alanine aminotransferase level, 56 IU/L; and lactate dehydrogenase level, 396 IU/L), a high creatine kinase level (827 IU/L) and a high plasma BNP level (3,003 pg/mL). A chest radiograph demonstrated a cardiothoracic ratio of 66%, without pulmonary congestion ( , left). In addition, 12-lead electrocardiography (ECG) showed left atrial overload, typical tall R waves in the right precordial leads and Q waves in the lateral leads ( , right), and continuous bedside ECG monitoring revealed nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, suggesting that the faintness may have been caused by ventricular arrhythmia. Furthermore, transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated LV dilatation and diffuse hypokinesis of the LV wall (LV end-diastolic dimension, 69 mm; LV endsystolic dimension, 63 mm; and ejection fraction, 20%). The LV wall was thin, with non-compaction, demonstrating hypertrabeculation and marked thinning of the posterior LVwall as a result of a lesion  (5). The thickness of the interventricular septum and posterior wall was 7 and 3 mm, respectively , while the left atrial dimension was 33 mm. Moreover, continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography revealed a pressure gradient of tricuspid regurgitation of 15 mmHg. The patient did not undergo a myocardial biopsy or cardiac MRI. As the patient's family did not wish for aggressive treatment and the ventricular arrhythmia may have been caused by the heart failure, he was medically treated with diureticagents and carperitide infusion. However, the plasma BNP level eventually increased to 7,795 pg/mL , and he died of cardiac arrest after the onset of ventricular tachycardia.
Myocardial involvement of DMD is known to be initially confined to the posterior wall, after which it extends to the whole ventricle. In the present case, echocardiography showed marked LV enlargement and diffuse LV hypokinesis, indicating whole LV involvement of the DMD.
In the present case, the symptoms were present even at rest, and transthoracic echocardiography showed marked LV enlargement as well as severe LV systolic dysfunction, indicating the end stage of heart failure; the patient subsequently died of ventricular tachycardia and severe heart failure. There are reports that the plasma BNP level increases considerably as a result of a high LV filling pressure (9), high pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (10) and sudden cardiac death (11). These conditions may have caused marked elevation of the plasma BNP level in the current case. Moreover, in the present case, high LV wall stress due to the markedly thin LV wall may have contributed to the high plasma BNP level (12). This case suggests that a marked increase in the BNP level during heart failure treatment may be a sign of a catastrophic cardiac and/or hemodynamic state that requires additional treatment, such as an implantable LV assist device. We herein reported a rare case of DMD in which the plasma BNP level was markedly high, likely due to severe LV dysfunction, enlargement, a high filling pressure and wall stress.
