A 63-year-old male with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidaemia, coronary artery disease and obstructive sleep apnoea presented to the clinic with worsening dyspnoea upon exertion (World Health Organization (WHO) functional class IIIb). Echocardiography revealed a normal-sized left ventricle, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 35–40%, delayed left ventricular diastolic relaxation, normal left atrium, right ventricular dilation with moderately depressed systolic function, mild right atrial enlargement, flattened interventricular septum, dilated inferior vena cava, and a pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 85 mmHg. Computed tomography pulmonary angiography revealed no pulmonary embolus or parenchymal lung disease. The patient failed to reach the target heart rate in a treadmill exercise test, but there was no evidence of myocardial ischaemia. Pulmonary function testing and right heart catheterisation (RHC) were performed (table 1). Question 1: Based on these data, what would be your initial assessment of this patient? This real-life patient case study highlights some of the many factors that can make diagnosing pulmonary hypertension associated with left heart disease (PH-LHD) challenging. Based on the information presented, would you diagnose this patient with PH-LHD? Introduction PH-LHD is a common form of pulmonary hypertension (PH) that is associated with a poor prognosis and high rate of morbidity and mortality . However, there is still a lack of understanding about its pathophysiology, epidemiology and treatment
; as such, there are numerous unmet needs for this condition (table 2). Multiple disorders are responsible for PH-LHD, including: 1) left ventricular systolic dysfunction (heart failure with reduced ejection fraction ; 2) left ventricular diastolic dysfunction (heart failure with preserved ejection fraction ; 3) left-sided valvular disease; and 4) congenital/ acquired left heart inflow/outflow tract obstruction and congenital cardiomyopathies . In many cases of PH-LHD, there is a degree of overlap in these aetiologies . PH-LHD is characterised by backwards transmission of filling pressures due to impaired left ventricular diastolic function. A loss of left atrial compliance, exercise-induced mitral regurgitation and diastolic dysfunction, combined with increased pulsatile load caused by the increased pulmonary artery wedge pressure (PAWP), can lead to and/or exacerbate the PH . Increases in mean pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP) in certain individuals may trigger development of PH. In some patients, additional factors, such as endothelial dysfunction (resulting in decreased nitric oxide availability and increased expression of endothelin) , an altered response to brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) (impacting vascular tone) , and vasoconstriction and/or vascular remodelling , can lead to further increases in vascular resistance and, hence, raised PAP . As such, extensive vascular remodelling can occur in PH-LHD, resulting in decreased vascular compliance; right ventricle overload and right ventricular failure can then ensue, eventually leading to death . It is important to remember that the most common cause of right ventricular dysfunction is still chronic heart failure .
There is no consensus regarding the true prevalence of PH-LHD in heart failure; it is estimated that up to 80% of patients with heart failure develop PH, depending on the methodology used to provide the . Depending on the method of detection, PH has been shown to occur in ⩾60% of patients with systolic dysfunction . In patients undergoing heart transplantation, PH has been reported as the cause of perioperative death in 44% of cases. Furthermore, the presence of PH could be considered a contraindication for carrying out transplantation . In this review, we discuss the knowledge gaps in our understanding of PH-LHD and challenges faced by clinicians in the diagnosis and management of patients with PH-LHD. This review also provides an overview of how PH-LHD is currently managed in patients, and reflects on a number of potential strategies that might improve patient outcomes.
