Eleven years ago, a 27-year-old non-drug abuser woman was hospitalized due to a major burn injuring 55 % of her total body surface area. During her hospital treatment, she developed a sustained fever. Blood cultures revealed multi-drug resistant (MDR) Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa) bacteremia. Her fever did not subside in spite of antibiotic therapy, and an echocardiogram showed tricuspid valve vegetation. She was transferred to our hospital and underwent tricuspid valve replacement (TVR) with a porcine bioprosthetic valve (27 mm Hancock II mitral valve; Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN). Her intraoperative valvular tissue cultures also proved to be positive for P. aeruginosa. She was treated with carbapenem antibiotics (meropenem) for 6 additional weeks after surgery and her blood cultures after the surgery revealed no bacterial growth. Ten years later, she developed symptoms of fever, nausea, and vomiting and was hospitalized again. MDR P. aeruginosa was grown from her blood cultures and her echocardiogram revealed tricuspid valve vegetation with paravalvular leakage. She was initially treated with polymyxin antibiotics (colistimethate sodium; colistin), and underwent redo-TVR with a porcine bioprosthetic valve (25 mm St. Jude Medical Epic valve; St. Jude Medical, St. Paul, MN). Her valvular tissue cultures were negative for P. aeruginosa. She received colistin and ciprofloxacin antibiotic therapy for 6 weeks after surgery and her postoperative blood cultures were shown to be negative for bacterial growth. Ten months later, she presented at the hospital again with symptoms of fever and chills. MDR P. aeruginosa was identified again by blood culture, and her echocardiogram revealed vegetation on the prosthetic tricuspid valve, with abscess formation in the perivalvular area. Despite 6 weeks of antibiotic therapy with colistin, her blood culture results remained positive for P. aeruginosa and her spiking fever persisted. She underwent a second redo-TVR with a bovine bioprosthetic valve (25 mm Carpentier-Edward Perimount; Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine, CA). Tissue cultures from the explanted valve proved to be positive for P. aeruginosa, and she was scheduled for treatment with colistin for 6 additional weeks after surgery. However, she developed a fever on postoperative day 39 and her blood culture results again showed MDR P. aeruginosa growth. She then was treated with colistin, ciprofloxacin and rifampin; however, her blood cultures were still positive for P. aeruginosa and her echocardiogram revealed vegetation on the bioprosthetic valve. Two months after the second redo surgery, she underwent a third redo-TVR with an aortic valve homograft (23 mm) because a mitral valve homograft was not available. Operative findings demonstrated abscessed and necrotic tissues in the septal annular area of the prosthetic valve stent although there was no prosthetic valve dehiscence. Abscessed and necrotic tissues were thoroughly removed. Although a 25 mm sized bioprosthetic valve was used in the previous second redo-TVR, a 23 mm sized aortic valve homograft fitted on the tricuspid annulus well. The aortic valve homograft was tailored appropriately, and the proper location for anchoring the homograft commissures was identified in the right ventricular wall so that the right ventricular outflow tract would align with one of the valve sinuses. The fixation sutures for anchoring the homograft commissures were placed on the septal, anterior, and posteroinferior walls of the right ventricle using interrupted 4-0 polypropylene sutures. The aortic valve homograft was placed in the infra-annular position of the tricuspid annulus, and the tricuspid annulus base was exposed so that the previous abscess site was not concealed by annular sewing sutures. Continuous 4-0 polypropylene suture was placed between the infra-annular right ventricular position of the tricuspid annulus and the homograft aortic valve annulus. Her intraoperative tissue cultures did not reveal any bacterial growth. She received continuous administration of the same antibiotics, and her postoperative blood cultures were negative for bacterial growth. She was discharged from the hospital after 6 additional weeks of antibiotic therapy. The echocardiogram performed before her discharge showed a well-functioning homograft , and she has been fever-free for more than 12 months at an out-patient clinic. In the present case, we identified the strains of each pathogen involved in each event of infective endocarditis by using the automated repetitive sequence-based polymerase chain reaction (rep-PCR) analysis method. This method targets non-coding repetitive sequences which are spread throughout eubacterial genomes , and has been shown to be reliable on P. aeruginosa isolates . Pathogens from each event of the patient's infective endocarditis were frozen and stored at −80 °C, and maintained at Microbank (Pro-Lab Diagnostics, Ontario, Canada). P. aeruginosa isolates were subcultured on blood agar plates and all bacterial deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was extracted using the UltraClean Microbial DNA isolation kit (MO BIO Laboratories, Carlsbad, CA). DNA strain typing was performed using the DiversiLab rep-PCR kit for Pseudomonas fingerprinting (bioMérieux, Durham, NC) . The results showed similarities of 90 % to 95 % in all strains. Although 95 % or greater similarity is generally accepted as the same strain , it seems the result is sufficient for identification as the same strain in all samples considering epidemiologic circumstances in this case.
