V alvular aortic stenosis leads to compensatory myocyte hypertrophy that initially restores wall stress to normal levels. When left untreated, myocardial fibrosis and decreased systolic function ensue with development of a cardiomyopathy of pressure overload. Clinically, this may present as a low-gradient, low ejection fraction (EF) aortic stenosis, and management of this clinical entity is well defined. Subjects with contractile reserve in the setting of dobutamine stimulation have been shown to benefit from aortic valve replacement (AVR). In contrast, the lack of contractile reserve after dobutamine is a high-risk finding. 1 AVR in this setting is related to high-operative mortality, and therefore, many patients are denied valve replacement. We present an extreme case of a patient with severe aortic stenosis and Stage D heart failure that recovered left ventricular (LV) function after left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation allowing for LVAD disconnection despite absent contractile reserve and pathological evidence of significant myocardial fibrosis. This case highlights the challenges of the conventional treatment paradigm and provides us unique insights into myocardial contractile recovery. The patient was a 53-year-old man who initially presented to a community hospital with 3 months of progressive dyspnea, orthopnea, edema, and decreased exercise tolerance. He had a past medical history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and a murmur first noted in adolescence. He denied a history of alcohol, drug, or stimulant use and had no family history of cardiovascular disease. Results of a complete metabolic panel, blood count, thyroid stimulating hormone, and iron studies were unremarkable. Echocardiography demonstrated a bicuspid aortic valve with severe low EF low-gradient aortic stenosis and a dilated and hyptrophied left ventricle. He was transferred to our institution for further care. On physical examination, there was elevated jugular venous pressure, auscultatory findings of severe aortic stenosis, rales, and pedal edema. ECG showed sinus tachycardia with left atrial enlargement, left ventricular hypertrophy, and an intraventricular conduction delay with QRS duration of 116 ms. The initial echocardiogram demonstrated moderate left ventricular hypertrophy with an EF of 13% . There was low-gradient aortic stenosis with an aortic valve area of 0.85 cm 2 , peak gradient 44 mm Hg, mean gradient 24 mm Hg, and dimensionless index 0.17. Left ventricular end-diastolic diameter was 6.6 cm, volume 288 mL, and global longitudinal strain (GLS) −1.15. N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide was 5423 pg/mL. Dobutamine stress echocardiography showed no contractile reserve and no change in gradients across the aortic valve ( ; Movie 1 in the Data Supplement). Coronary angiography did not reveal obstructive coronary artery disease. The patient decompensated further with worsening dyspnea at rest and signs of end organ malperfusion. Right heart catheterization was performed showing a right atrial pressure of 17 mm Hg, right ventricular pressure 58/19 mm Hg, pulmonary artery pressure 58/30 mm Hg (mean, 39 mm Hg), and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 31 mm Hg. Cardiac output was 3.19 L/min and cardiac index 1.42 L/min per m 2 by the Fick method. Pulmonary artery catheter–guided intravenous diuresis and vasodilation with sodium nitroprusside was initiated. An intra-aortic balloon pump was later inserted because of hypotension and continued cardiogenic shock. The cardiac index improved to 1.8 L/min per m 2. Because of the severely depressed EF, left ventricular strain, and lack of contractile reserve, the patient underwent a bioprosthetic AVR along with primary HeartWare LVAD implantation as a bridge to transplantation. The postoperative course was uncomplicated. Histology of the apical core showed myocyte hypertrophy and moderate interstitial fibrosis . After hospital discharge, the patient was able to tolerate a significant amount of neurohormonal blockade. Medications were uptitrated to carvedilol 50 mg twice daily, lisinopril 20 mg twice daily, hydralazine 100 mg 3× daily, spironolactone 37.5 mg daily, and amlodipine 10 mg daily to target a mean arterial pressure below 90 mm Hg. He was free of heart
