A 74-year-old male with diabetes, chronic kidney disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease not on home oxygen therapy, cerebrovascular disease, status post left superficial temporal to middle cerebral artery bypass, left carotid endarterectomy and subsequent stent placement, 3-vessel coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass graft and non small cell right lung cancer stage IIIA status post induction chemoradiation with response and downstage to stage IIA, was referred for increasing shortness of breath on minimal exertion for the last 6 months and abdominal pain. Of note he had an expanding infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm measuring 5 cm on recent computed tomography angiography (CTA), which had increased from 4 cm in 6 months. Echocardiogram showed severe AS with mean gradient of 43 mmHg, aortic orifice size of 0.48 cm 2 , mild aortic and mitral insufficiency, ejection fraction of 30–35 % with hypokinesis of anterior apical region and mild pulmonary hypertension. Left heart catheterization revealed complete patency of all five bypass grafts. In the presence of his complicated medical and surgical history he was deemed high risk candidate for surgical aortic valve replacement with an STS score calculated at 6.2 % and decision was made to proceed with simultaneous TAVR and EVAR to address both the AS and AAA. Under general anesthesia, double Proglide/Preclose technique was used to access both femoral arteries. A 31 mm CoreValve (Medtronic Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota) was deployed across the aortic annulus  delivered through a 18-F sheath from the left groin. Under transesophageal control mild-to-moderate paravalvular leak was noted and the valve was post dilated with a 24 mm aortic valvuloplasty balloon. This lessened the degree of aortic insufficiency and by aortic root angiography was noted to be trivial with excellent positioning of the valve on the annulus . Transgastric view confirmed minimal gradient across the valve . Direct review of the angiographic imaging along with preoperative review of the CTA and CT reconstruction  that had depicted a 14 mm proximal neck, deemed the patient good candidate for a 20 mm Ovation Prime Abdominal Stent Graft System (TriVascular, Inc., Santa Rosa, CA), which was placed uneventfully. Completion angiography revealed a probable type 3 endoleak ( , arrow) originating in the overlap of the limbs and the main body that was approached with serial balloon dilations. Repeat completion angiogram showed resolution of the type 3 endoleak  and complete exclusion of the AAA. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was extubated in the operating. He had an uneventful hospital stay and was discharged home on postoperative day 3. At his 1-week follow up, the patient felt significantly better with NYHA I symptoms. Echocardiographic follow up revealed no significant aortic regurgitation and no transvalvular gradient, which persisted in 3-month follow up study. The arteriotomy sites were well healed with excellent peripheral perfusion.
