A 14-year-old girl was admitted with dyspnea, pedal edema, loss of weight, and anorexia. She was treated for DCM for the last three months. Absent pulse was observed in both upper extremities, whereas high blood pressure (BP) was recorded in the lower limbs. Lower limb BP was 144/86 (>95th percentile for age). General physical examination revealed engorged jugular venous pressure, tachycardia, severe wasting, and pedal edema. Cardiovascular examination revealed the presence of third heart sound with grade II/VI pansystolic murmur at the apex. Abdominal examination revealed bilateral renal artery bruit. The complete blood count showed hemoglobin 10.2 g%, leukocyte count 1,1400/mm 3 , and platelet count 275,000/mm 3. The C-reactive protein level was 1.9 mg/dL, and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 30 mm/h. She had both liver and renal dysfunction due to congestive heart failure. Antinuclear antibody (ANA) test was found to be negative. Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly. Echocardiography revealed dilated left ventricle (LV) with mild mitral regurgitation and aortic regurgitation ( and B) and decreased LV ejection function (LVEF 30%). A 64-slice computed tomography showed a mildly dilated ascending aorta with occlusion of bilateral subclavian arteries, normal coronary arteries, saccular aneurysm of suprarenal abdominal aorta, significant stenosis of celiac artery, 50% stenosis of superior mesenteric artery, and significant stenosis of bilateral renal arteries . Afterconfirming the diagnosis of TA associated with DCM and bilateral renal artery stenosis, she was treated with methyl prednisolone pulse therapy, oral prednisolone (1 mg/kg/d), and weekly methotrexate (15 mg/m 2 ). For congestive heart failure, she was given furosemide diuretic, spironolactone, and carvedilol. After improvement in renal parameters, she underwent balloon angioplasty of bilateral renal arteries ( F) through percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. It was done through right femoral artery approach. A 6F arterial sheath was inserted into the right femoral artery. Nonselective renal angiogram was taken by the help of a 6F pigtail catheter, which demonstrated bilateral significant renal artery stenosis. Selective renal angiogram was done by using a 6F renal-guiding catheter. A 0.014-in floppy wire was inserted into the renal arteries, and angioplasty was done by using a 3 Â 10 mm non-compliant balloon inflated at 8 to 10 atm. Following renal angioplasty, ramipril and aspirin were also started. At most recent follow-up, the LV function had improved slightly, and although BP was under control (BP 110/70), she was put on treatment with ramipril and carvedilol for LV dysfunction.showed postangioplasty status of bilateral renal artery with good calibre of vessels.
