A 43-year-old female presented with shortness of breath, chest discomfort and light-headedness while cross-country skiing. She was able to call the rescue service herself and upon arrival they detected a wide QRS complex tachycardia with left bundle branch block morphology and inferior axis at 190 bpm that was terminated by administration of 50 mg Ajmalin i.v. . In stable condition the patient was transferred to our emergency room for further evaluation. Medical history included repeated episodes of similar symptoms upon physical exertion, yet no syncope. The family history was remarkable of a survived sudden cardiac arrest of the patient's father at the age of 86 years and recurrent syncopes during exercise of the patient's daughter. The resting 12-lead ECG displayed T-wave inversion in leads V1-4 in the absence of bundle branch block configuration . Laboratory analysis showed mildly elevated troponin T. Echocardiography showed normal size and function of the left ventricle. However, the right ventricle (RV) was significantly enlarged with reduced function . Cardiac MRI displayed a reduced RV ejection fraction of 27 % with moderate RV enlargement and increased RV end-diastolic volume (128 ml) ( , c), as well as akinesia of the apical RV posterior wall with late enhancement in this area . The coronary angiogram was normal. 12 leadHolter monitoring revealed numerous premature ectopic ventricular beats (>7000) and three episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia around 200 bpm the longest lasting over 20 min with left bundle branch block configuration originating from the RV outflow tract (RVOT). In the electrophysiological study, 3D electroanatomic voltage mapping showed low voltage areas in the apical and basal inferior RV as well as the lateral and medial RV outflow tract. Isoproterenol infusion as well as programmed ventricular stimulation induced the clinically documented ventricular tachycardia (VT) as well as 3 other forms of RV-VT. Radiofrequency energy ablation guided by voltage and activation mapping successfully eliminated all induced VTs and reached non-inducibility of ventricular arrhythmias. Taken together the definite clinical diagnosis of late-onset arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) was made according to the modified Task Force criteria by Marcus et al.
. The patient fulfilled two major criteria of ARVC (MRI pathology, repolarization abnormalities) and one minor criterion (arrhythmia). During the following days ventricular tachycardia could neither be recorded in repeated Holter monitoring nor induced by controlled exercise stress testing. Nevertheless, we recommended the implantation of an automated implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD) for secondary prophylaxis of sudden cardiac death, which was initially refused by the patient. The patient agreed, however, to conduct genetic testing of common ARVC genes for eventual substantiation of the diagnosis. While DNA exon sequencing of the ARVC genes desmoglein 2 (DSG2), desmoplakin (DSP), ryanodine receptor 2 (RYR2), transmembrane protein 43 (TMEM43), desmocollin 2 (DSC2), junction plakoglobin (JUP) and transforming growth factor beta 3 (TGFB3) showed no pathological findings, sequencing of the plakophilin-2 (PKP2) gene identified a new variant in exon 7 (performed at the Synlab, Mannheim, Germany). This heterozygous c1664delT deletion mutation has not yet been described in the literature (HGMD Professional 2014.1). However, a pathogenic effect of this mutation is very likely, since the frame-shift p.F555Sfs*8 prematurely terminates translation which probably leads to degradation of RNA or composition of an altered protein (implantation and a single-chamber ICD was successfully implanted. In the 6-months follow-up no sustained or non-sustained ventricular tachycardia was recorded in the ICD memory. Predictive genetic testing of first-degree family members of the index patient for the new PKP2 mutation disclosed the familial heterozygous mutation in both children (ages 13 and 16) and the father of the patient. Neither her mother, nor her sister and her aunt were carriers of the mutation (
,
). All carriers of the mutation underwent a comprehensive cardiological work-up including 12-lead ECG, exercise stress test, Holter monitoring, echocardiography and MRI of the heart (performed at Deutsches Herzzentrum München, Universitätsklinikum München-Großhadern, Germany). The daughter showed an orthostatic reaction after stress testing resulting in dizziness and pre-syncopy but no arrhythmias were detected during this episode. At present, the remaining cardiological examinations were normal. The son presented with an epsilon potential in lead V1 in the resting ECG. The results of all other tests showed currently no abnormal findings. Nevertheless, with two major criteria being present, ARVC was diagnosed in the son. Both children were recommended to refrain from excessive physical exercise and to perform semi-annual cardiologic check-ups. The 91-year old father of the index patient, currently still in good health, had a long-standing medical history of cardiac diseases, including sick sinus syndrome, implantation of a biologic aortic valve at the age of 81 and one episode of ventricular tachycardia thatwas successfully terminated with i.v. amiodarone at the age of 86, when he declined the implantation of an ICD. Echocardiography showed significant dilatation of the right ventricle with severely reduced function (TAPSE = 7 mm). Upon MRI the right ventricular ejection fraction was severely reduced (20 %) with akinesia and fibrosis of the lateral wall. Therefore, the diagnosis of ARVC was made.
