The patient was a 6-month-old male infant (weight, 5.9 kg) diagnosed with aortic valve stenosis by echocardiography. Cardiac catheterization revealed moderate aortic valve stenosis due to thickened tricuspid valve, with left ventricular pressure of 143/-mmHg (end-diastolic pressure 11 mmHg) and an ascending aortic pressure of 83/38 mmHg (mean, 57 mmHg). Subsequent left ventriculography revealed discrete stenosis of the sinotubular junction and a narrowed proximal ascending aorta . The operation was performed at 6 months of age. After median sternotomy, a 30-mm square piece of autologous pericardium was harvested and treated with 0.6 % glutaraldehyde solution. Subsequent morphological inspection of the outer structure was performed, and features nearly identical to those at the preoperative diagnosis were noted. Cardiopulmonary bypass was established with ascending aortic and bicaval cannulations, aortic cross clamping was performed and cardiac arrest was achieved with cold crystalloid cardioplegia. First, an oblique incision was made on the anterior wall of ascending aorta. The proximal end of the incision was at the center of the non-coronary sinus. The second incision began within the lower third of the first incision line and was placed 2–3 mm to right of the left coronary artery orifice. Because the left main trunk originated from the center of the left sinus and turned to the left, this incision avoided damage to the left coronary artery orifice. This incision and patch closure resembles the Manouguian root enlargement. Then the third aortic incision began within the upper third of the first incision line and was placed 2–3 mm to the left of the right coronary artery orifice. Because the right coronary artery originated from the center of the right sinus and turned to the right, the third incision avoided damage to the right coronary artery orifice. This incision and patch closure resembles the Konno root enlargement. After aortic valvoplasty with three directional commissurotomy and leaflet slicing, ascending aortoplasty was performed using the novel three-sinus enlargement technique. The second and third incisions were enlarged using a trimmed half-ellipse composite patch, prepared using autologous pericardium treated with 0.6 % glutaraldehyde solution and Dacron velour fabric. Finally, the initial aortic oblique incision was enlarged using a fontanel-shaped composite patch attached with a single running suture . Cardiac catheterization was performed at 13 months after the procedure, and no stenosis in the left ventricular outflow tract was observed. The pressure gradient across the aortic annulus was 10 mmHg or less [
].
