An 84-year-old man with a distant history of myocardial infarction that required 5-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in 1998 presented with symptomatic aortic stenosis, including increasing shortness of breath with exertion and chest pressure. Physical examination noted mild lower extremity edema with 2-pillow orthopnea. Echocardiography showed severe aortic stenosis with calcifications, a calculated valve area of 0.8 cm 2 , and a 25-mm aortic annulus. The mean aortic gradient was 45 mm Hg with systolic heart failure and a baseline left ventricle ejection fraction of 20% to 30%. The patient also had an implantable cardioverter defibrillator placed in 2013. He had balloon aortic valvuloplasty 4 months prior to his current admission, and the aortic valve area at the time was determined to be 0.6 cm 2. The patient's Society of Thoracic Surgeons risk of mortality for an open procedure was calculated to be 9.04%. 8 Because of comorbidities and progressive symptoms in a high-risk patient, it was decided that he should undergo transcatheter prosthetic replacement of the aortic valve. A 26-mm Edwards SAPIEN XT valve (Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine, CA, USA) was introduced percutaneously through a right transfemoral approach. Angiography was performed to localize the ideal plane for valve placement, and using transient left ventricular pacing at 180 beats per minute, the balloon was inflated and the valve deployed. Following partial deflation of the balloon, pacing capture was lost for 4 beats, and during this time the valve embolized into the ascending aorta . An attempt was made to reposition the valve using a Z-MED 6×30-mm valvuloplasty balloon catheter (B. Braun, Bethlehem, PA, USA), but this method failed due to the severe tapering of the transverse aortic arch, preventing valve passage into the descending aorta. Another attempt was made to reposition the valve using a Palmaz XL 10×39-mm transhepatic biliary stent (Cordis, Bridgewater, NJ, USA), but this attempt also failed as the stent could not be adequately dilated to allow for sufficient valve stabilization . Throughout these procedures, the patient remained hemodynamically stable, and a larger 29-mm Edwards SAPIEN XT valve was introduced and successfully deployed without prosthesis embolization . The embolized valve was re-imaged and shown to have poor stabilization in a non-moving position. The valve was also causing an intermittent outflow obstruction of the innominate artery, with a pressure gradient reduction >50 mm Hg. At this point, the vascular team was consulted, and it was decided to deploy a TEVAR stent in an attempt to appose the valve to the aortic wall. A 36×80-mm Zenith Dissection Endovascular System (ZDES) bare metal stent (Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN, USA) was selected due to its short length, which prevented occlusion of the coronary artery ostia or innominate artery takeoff but had sufficient diameter to tack the valve to the vessel wall. Cook Medical agreed to release the stent on a compassionate basis for a life-threatening procedure, as this device is currently being tested onsite as part of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)–approved STABLE II trial. Left femoral access was obtained, and a bioptome (a small, pincer-shaped grasping instrument often used for tissue biopsies) was used to grasp and stabilize the embolized valve. The TEVAR stent was then introduced over a DC Lunderquist catheter (Cook Medical) and telescoped within the valve. The cone of the delivery system was telescoped through the properly implanted aortic valve and into the left ventricle. The embolized valve was then maneuvered into a position between the native coronaries and the coronary artery bypass graft, and the system was successfully deployed to stabilize and secure the valve inside the ascending aorta between both coronary systems and the takeoff of the innominate artery . Completion aortography revealed a stable valve position without extravasation, dissection, or aortic regurgitation; intraoperative ultrasound showed no obstruction to theinnominate artery flow. The arterial sheaths were subsequently removed and the remainder of the procedure concluded uneventfully. Postoperatively, the patient was started on warfarin and remained stable on pressor agents but had a prolonged hospitalization requiring reintubation and extubation following respiratory failure, intermittent shortness of breath, and fluctuating mental status, which were believed to be due to his numerous comorbidities and not the prostheses themselves. The patient denied chest pain but had several conversions to atrial fibrillation requiring rate/rhythm control medication. Echocardiography performed 5 days postoperatively showed that the properly implanted aortic valve was well seated without regurgitation. Chest computed tomographic angiography showed a well-positioned aortic stent and valve at 1-and 4-month follow-up. There was no evidence of endoleak or clot formation and minimal motion by gated cine . The patient was ultimately discharged after 37 days in the hospital; 12 months following the procedure, he has been free of cardiovascular or strokerelated complications.
