Patient I-1 A female was born at 36 weeks to nonconsanguineous healthy, UK Caucasian British parents following a normal pregnancy and delivery. Birth weight was 2.470 kg (25thY50th centile); head circumference was 32.5 cm (50thY75th centile). On delivery, general condition was immediately and unexpectedly poor, with Apgar scores of 1 at 1 minute and 1 at 5 minutes. She was blue, floppy, and took only 1 breath. She was intubated at birth, and resuscitation was attempted for over an hour but was ultimately unsuccessful. Apart from a dermal pit on the lower back, no dysmorphic features were noted on examination.
This pregnancy was closely monitored because of the previous neonatal death. Nuchal translucency was increased on ultrasound at 12 weeks (3.8 mm; 99th centile, 3.5 mm ). Because of concerns about fetal bradycardia, serial fetal echocardiograms were performed, which, at 20 weeks gestation, revealed mild biventricular hypertrophy in the absence of left or right outflow obstruction. From 29 weeks on the ventricular hypertrophy was more marked on the right than the left and was nonprogressive. Ultrasonography revealed transverse cerebellar diameter at 18.9 mm at 20 +2 weeks and 19.5mm at 21 +2 weeks on the 3rd percentile. Biparietal diameter was 43.8 and 49.6 mm at corresponding dates. Repeat ultrasound scan at 36 weeks showed polyhydramnios, right-sided pleural effusion, hyperechogenic bowel loops with bowel dilation, skin edema, and absence of fetal movements. Labor was induced at 36 +2 weeks, with vaginal delivery of a cyanotic, hypotonic, and bradycardic female weighing 2.340 kg (25th centile). APGAR scores were 3 at 1 minute and 4 at 5 minutes. Assisted ventilation rapidly improved both heart rate and color. She was intubated by 6 minutes of age because of absence of echocardiogram movements and absent respiratory effort. She remained ventilator dependent. Postnatal echocardiogram confirmed biventricular hypertrophy with good ventricular function and neither left nor right ventricular outflow obstruction. Neurologic examination revealed marked central and peripheral hypotonia, decreased reflexes and minimal spontaneous limb movements. No dysmorphic features were noted. Ocular and audiologic examinations were normal. On day 2, EEG suggested burst-suppression pattern. Blood and CSF lactate levels were elevated (blood persistently È7 mmol/L with maximum 19.8 mmol/L on day 11 [reference range, 0.7Y2.2 mmol/L], CSF 11.3 mmol/L on day 5 [reference range, 1.1Y2.2 mmol/L ). She had low serum calcium on day 1 treated with intravenous calcium infusion and hyponatremia during the first week managed by fluid restriction. Urinary analyses showed moderate lactic aciduria, moderately increased 4-hydroxyphenylacetate, and mildly increased 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate, consistent with liver dysfunction/immaturity. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed on day 8. After family discussion, intensive care was withdrawn on day 14, and death rapidly occurred. A full postmortem examination was conducted 1 day later with full consent.
Head circumference was 32.0 cm (50thY75th centile). External gross examination revealed generalized subcutaneous edema, small midface, wide lower face, and depressed nasal bridge; limbs, hands, and feet were normal. There were pericardial, pleural, peritoneal effusions. Lungs were hypoplastic. The heart showed prominent right ventricular trabeculation withCardiac muscle featured instances of myocyte central clearing and abundant eosinophilic cytoplasmic puncta interpreted as mitochondria, some abnormally large, overall considered consistent with a mitochondrial cardiomyopathy. Oil Red O stain did not show accumulation of fine-droplet lipid in any myofiber. Microscopically, the heart showed myocyte hypertrophy without disarray. Some myocytes were swollen with perinuclear clearing and loss of cross-striation; contained numerous eosinophilic dots interpreted as mitochondria, some being abnormally large; and had an excess of fine droplets of Oil Red OYpositive lipid. There was no inflammation, necrosis, or endocardial fibroelastosis. COX/SDH histochemistry revealed a near global loss of COX activity despite sparing of SDH activity in both skeletal and cardiac muscle tissues from both patients . Although the postmortem interval was longer in Patient I-1 (5 days), it is our experience that samples retain COX and SDH activity after considerable postmortem delay and it is usually SDH activity that is most labile. Spectrophotometric assay of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes showed a marked reduction in complex I, III, and IV activities in Patient I-2's skeletal and cardiac muscle compared with controls with a general sparing of complex II activity, indicating a generalized defect of mitochondrial translation (
.
The fixed brain weighed 230 g, whereas the combined brainstem and cerebellum weight was disproportionately low at 10.4 g (4.5% of total fixed brain weight). Externally, cerebral leptomeninges loosely covered a normal arrangement of gyri where there was no sulcal widening. The medulla and cerebellum were much smaller relative to the remainder of the brain. Coronal sections of cerebrum showed neither sulcal widening nor malformation; however, macroscopically, there was dark discoloration of the central white matter with superimposed pale streaks within the occipital region . The corpus callosum was of normal thickness, the anterior commissure and fornix were normal, and the septum pellucidum was caved anteriorly but otherwise normal. The deep grey matter showed no midline fusion. The hippocampi appeared normally formed and largely filled the temporal horns; the lateral and third ventricles were not dilated. The midbrain showed a normal aqueduct, peduncles, and colliculi. Pons had grossly normal tegmentum and basis pontis, whereas the medulla was tiny. Cerebellar vermis and hemisphere showed fewer folial subdivisions than normal (Figs. 3Ai, ii). A 5-cm sample of lower spinal cord displayed no convincing abnormalities. Microscopic findings were generally similar to or supplemented those in the sibling. Sagittal sections through the cerebellar vermis clearly demonstrated a normal arrangement of principal lobules but much reduced folial branching . The marked reduction in thickness of individual cortical laminae, lack of Purkinje cells  and their cytologic changes , and reduced internal granule-cell packingdensity were as in Patient I-1. The dentate nucleus and the internal olivary nuclei were both discernible and normally formed ( and Diii, iv). The basis pontis of Patient I-2, however, contrasted strikingly with her sister's by displaying marked neuron loss  associated with astrogliosis , and microgliosis . Deep cerebral white matter showed mineralizing macrophage-rich foci of periventricular leukomalacia , corresponding to the macroscopic streaky pallor. The putamen, caudate, and globus pallidus exhibited sparse eosinophilic neurons consistent with ischemiahypoxia, capillary prominence, and endothelial cell hypertrophy without excessive micromineralization. Immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein showed astrocytosis in the globus pallidus alone, whereas anti-CD68 showed moderate and minor microgliosis in globus pallidus and caudate-putamen, respectively. The hypothalamus showed normal nuclear groups and mammillary bodies, dorsolateral regions showed moderate diffuse microgliosis, and there was no astrocytosis. In contrast to Patient I-1, the internal capsule and optic tract showed moderate microgliosis. Sciatic nerve (available for Patient I-2 only) showed rare small CD68-positive macrophages and similarly immunoreactive sparse spindly cells within the endoneurium by light microscopy. Phosphorylated neurofilament antibody showed axons of all sizes (Figs. 5A, B). There were no cellular infiltrates. Electron microscopy, although hampered by postmortem artefact, demonstrated considerably fewer myelinated fibers than expected for the age (Figs. 5C, D). Some myelinated fibers had an inappropriately thin sheath for axon diameter. In some others, the axon was absent, leaving only a collapsed myelin sheath. A few unmyelinated axons were large enough to be the result of demyelination, whereas the perineurium appeared mature, which does not suggest delayed maturation.
