A 51-year-old woman complained of a 30 years history of recurrent spontaneous epistaxis that became progressively more severe, accompanied by lesions in hands and tongue ( , b, c). The lesions on her hands and tongue were not problematic and did not require treatment. On the contrary, nose bleeds since her twenty were the most common reasons that led to go to a doctor or be hospitalized. An otolaryngological examination revealed mucosal erosion bleeding on double Little's areas of nasal septum and blood clots in right nasal cavity ( , b, c). Nasal packing and antifibrinolytic drugs such as tranexamic acid were often used to control acute bleeding. Sometimes fresh frozen plasma and cryoprecipitate were transfused to assist in stopping the bleeding. She also suffered from iron deficiency anemia (IDA) and iron supplement by oral and intravenous administrations was commenced. However, the hemoglobin level was always dropped to \50 g/L and the lowest was 44 g/L. Since April 2013 to April 2014, the patient has received blood transfusions more than ten times and more than 20 U of red cells. At the age of 50, the patient was admitted to our hospital complaining of cough and polypnea. Arterial blood gas revealed that pressure of oxygen (PO 2 ) was 57 mm Hg and pressure of carbon dioxide (PCO 2 ) was 26.1 mm Hg. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography scan of the chest indicated a pulmonary arteriovenous fistula (PAVF) in the left upper lobe . She underwent resection of the large, thin-walled arteriovenous fistula in the left lung. Pathological examination of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula showed that the walls of peripheral pulmonary arteries were thick with fibroplastic proliferation, hyalinization and mucoid degeneration . After the operation, the patient's symptoms had improved. However, the patient was rehospitalized several months later because of progressive dyspnea and lower extremity edema. Her blood pressure was 118/78 mm Hg. Hemoglobin level was 86 g/L and albumin level was 31 g/L. Arterial blood gases analysis showed PO 2 of 67 mm Hg and PCO 2 of 27.5 mm Hg. An electrocardiogram disclosed nodal tachycardia with right axis deviation, incomplete right bundle-branch block and inverted T waves. Echocardiography demonstrated a dilated right heart with tricuspid valvular regurgitation and PAH. It also demonstrated a normal left ventricular size and left ventricular ejection fraction was 70 %. AVMs were found in the liver by Transabdominal Color Doppler scanning and computed tomography arteriography (CTA) ( , b). Right heart catheterization revealed precapillary pulmonary hypertension (PH) with a mean pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) of 40 mm Hg (66/27), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) of 3 mm Hg (6/1), pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) of 4.12 Wood U, cardiac output (CO) of 8.98 L/min and cardiac index (CI) of 5.07 L/min/m 2. Based on these findings, the diagnosis of heart failure [New York Heart Association (NYHA) and PAH were made. She was treated with diuretic, digoxin and bosentan. Heart failure symptoms were significantly improved. However, since then she was repeatedly hospitalized due to recurrent attacks of heart failure. The female patient's family history revealed that her father and daughter also experienced recurrent epistaxis. Her father died at the age of 65 years due to lung cancer. Her 13-year-old daughter presented epistaxis only several times since the age of ten. Clinical diagnosis of HHT was made according to the consensus clinical criteria known as the Curacao Criteria which were published in 2000 . Genetic analysis of the ENG gene, the ACVRL1 gene and the Smad4 gene wasperformed for this patient and her family members including her daughter, brother and niece (see supplementary material). The patient and her daughter were detected the same mutation in exon 7 of the ACVRL1 gene (c.925G[A) . The other two family members were found the same mutation in exon 7 of the ACVRL1 gene (c.817C[T) .
Computed tomography shows a pulmonary arteriovenous malformations in the lower lingual segment of upper lobe of left lung The pathological findings show thick-walled peripheral pulmonary arteries Computed tomography scans of abdomen with contrast and 3D reconstruction showing engorged and distorted hepatic artery and squashed left portal vein which collected with branches of right hepatic artery (a, b) Heart failure and pulmonary arteriovenous malformations in a patient with hereditary… 517 ACVRL1 gene was highly conserved among multi-species .
