A 23-year-old male presented to the emergency department with chest pain. His electrocardiogram (EKG) was noted to have ST segment elevation in leads II, III, aVF, V4, V5, and V6 . He was brought to the Cardiac Catherization Lab, which demonstrated normal coronary arteries, but a slightly depressed ejection fraction (EF) of 45% and anteroapical hypokinesis. These fi ndings raised concerns regarding myopericarditis. He was treated for presumed viral myopericarditis. While admitted, he experienced intermittent fevers, thought to be viral in etiology. Blood cultures were negative. His troponin peaked at 60.95. He had a leukocytosis of 19.7, with 10% bands. A subsequent echocardiogram 2 days later demonstrated a normal EF and normal wall motion. Leukocytosis improved. He was discharged home. Nine days following hospital discharge, the patient presented with recurrent severe chest pain, radiating to the left shoulder and back, intermittent fevers, and fatigue. He was febrile to 38.7 ° C, and mildly tachycardic. An EKG was obtained which showed inferior Q waves and diffuse T wave inversions. Laboratory evaluation was notable for a leukocytosis of 23.1, and an INR of 1.6. His troponin and liver function tests were within normal range. On hospital day 2, he became hypotensive in the setting of fever and tachycardia. The patient was aggressively rehydrated and his blood pressure improved. Blood cultures grew F. nucleatum after 48 h of incubation. CT examination of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis with IV contrast showed two adjacent abscesses in the left hepatic lobe . The patient underwent evaluation for common causes of myopericarditis, including herpes simplex virus (HSV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein – Barr virus (EBV), human immunodefi ciency virus (HIV), Lyme disease, and tuberculosis (TB). All were negative. A transesophageal echocardiogram was negative for endocarditis or valvular dysfunction. The patient was diagnosed with a pyogenic liver abscess secondary to F. nucleatum , a bacterium typically found in the oropharynx and colon. The patient denied any recent dental procedures, and on examination did not have any obvious dental carries, fractured teeth or evidence of oropharyngeal infection. No colon abnormalities were found on colonoscopy.
The patient underwent percutaneous catheter drainage of the abscess. Gram stain of the drainage fl uid showed gram-negative bacilli and anaerobic cultures grew F. nucleatum. The patient was started on piperacillin/tazobactam. His leukocytosis resolved. He was discharged to complete a 6 week course of ertapenem. The patient was maintained on aspirin and colchicine for myopericarditis while hospitalized.
