A 61 year-old homeless African-American male was admitted to the intensive care unit with fever, dyspnea, and hemoptysis for four days. He had a history of depression and active intravenous drug use. Physical examination was positive for crackles in both lung fields. He had no track marks on his skin. His white blood cell (WBC) count wasof author information is available at the end of the article of pulmonary embolism . Empiric vancomycin and piperacillin-tazobactam were started. His initial blood cultures and serum HIV ELISA antibody were negative. Three tracheal aspirate specimen smears were negative for acid-fast bacilli. Bronchoscopy performed on hospital day three showed black secretions from the right lower lobe. He was started on Micafungin after bronchoalveolar lavage cultures grew Candida albicans and Candida glabrata. Transbronchial biopsy was not performed due to friable mucosa. Trans-thoracic echocardiogram on hospital day five revealed no valvular abnormalities or vegetations. Because of persistent fever and hypoxia, a second bronchoscopy was performed on hospital day eight, which still showed black secretions; bronchoalveolar lavage cultures grew Candida glabrata. Two sets of blood cultures collected on hospital day twelve grew Candida albicans. A central venous catheter that had been placed on admission was removed; culture of the catheter tip showed no growth. Amphotericin B lipid complex was initially added to Micafungin. After his creatinine rose from 0.9 to 4.5 mg/dL, this was switched to Liposomal Amphotericin B; his creatinine normalized to 1.1 mg/dL by hospital day thirty. Additionally, his WBC count rose to 4.9 × 10 3 /μL with 68% neutrophils calculated on an automated differential with no interventions other than treating his underlying sepsis. The patient defervesced three days after amphotericin B was added and Micafungin was discontinued. However, repeat blood cultures on hospital day fourteen again grew Candida albicans. A trans-esophageal echocardiogram (TEE) performed on hospital day sixteen showed a 1.5 cm mobile mass on the pulmonary valve extending from the right ventricular outflow tract across the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary artery . A diagnosis of isolated pulmonary valve endocarditis secondary to Candida was made. Cardiothoracic surgery was consulted; they advised medical therapy and later re-evaluation as the patient was a high-risk candidate for surgery. Blood cultures obtained on hospital day 16 had no growth. After a tracheostomy was performed, the patient was transferred to a nursing home to complete liposomal amphotericin B for a total of eight weeks. His repeat CT chest at the time of discharge showed complete resolution of pulmonary infiltrates  and he was weaned to tracheal mask. Lifelong suppressive oral fluconazole therapy was recommended. After eight weeks of antifungal therapy, a repeat TEE did not show any pulmonary valve vegetation . The patient clinically improved, his tracheostomy was closed, and he was discharged back to the shelter. Six months after discharge, the patient was asymptomatic and doing well. He had stopped taking his oral fluconazole despite recommendations for lifelong suppressive therapy.
