are associated with increased procedure-related morbidity and mortality rates for TAVR, its feasibility for severe AS with acute decompensated heart failure has not been established. We describe how we performed urgent TAVR with cardiopulmonary support (CPS) using an EdwardsSAPIEN valve (Edwards Lifesciences Inc., Irvine, CA) for a high-risk patient, with a good outcome. The patient was an 86-year-old woman without a remarkable clinical history, in whom severe AS with acute heart failure was diagnosed after she presented with dyspnea on exertion. On admission, she had shortness of breath at rest [New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification class IV]. Chest X-ray showed bilateral pleural effusion, pulmonary congestion, and cardiomegaly . Blood tests showed a significantly elevated brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) level of 5308 pg/mL. Echocardiography confirmed severe AS with a peak transvalvular velocity of 5.0 m/s, peak/mean transvalvular gradients of 98.8/59.1 mmHg, an aortic valve area of 0.34 cm 2 , and a low left ventricular ejection fraction of 32 % on inotrope (dobutamine, 3 μg/kg/min) with generalized hypokinesis and pulmonary hypertension (estimated right ventricular systolic pressure, 64 mmHg). Her blood pressure and pulse rate were 145/96 mmHg and 90 beats per min, respectively. Electrocardiogram (ECG) showed regular rhythm and findings suggestive of left ventricular hypertrophy with strain signs on lateral leads, and sporadic premature ventricular contractions. Multi detector-row computed tomography (MDCT) findings revealed an aortic annular diameter of 22.0 mm (calculated from the perimeter), and minimum lumen diameters of 6.2 and 8.3 mm, respectively, for the Abstract Recent evidence suggests that transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is feasible for treating severe aortic valve stenosis (AS) in patients who are considered high risk for elective surgery. However, it is still unclear whether TAVR is a better option than surgical aortic valve replacement for severe AS with acute decompensated heart failure. We report a case of severe AS with acute heart failure, which was treated successfully by urgent TAVR, with cardiopulmonary support.
