The patient was a 50-year old female with a history of aortic stenosis related to a bicuspid aortic valve, managed with a bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement in 2003. She subsequently developed early prosthetic valve dysfunction, requiring implantation of a St Jude Bileaflet mechanical prosthesis in 2012. Recently, she was admitted for recurrent exacerbation of congestive heart failure. Transoesophageal echocardiogram (TOE) revealed a septal defect between the LV and RA with significant left to right shunting with pulmonary flow/systemic flow (QP/QS) >2.0, and dilated RA and RV . A cardiac computed tomography angiography demonstrated the defect just above the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve and below the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve . Cardiac catheterization confirmed the significant shunt with QP/QS of 2.13. The possibility of endocarditis was ruled out by repeated negative cultures and multiple testing, ruling out potential sources of any suspected infection. A surgical consult was obtained and the patient was deemed to be at high risk for surgical closure. Therefore, she was referred for percutaneous closure of the defect. Vascular access was obtained from the right femoral artery, right femoral vein and left femoral vein. Intracardiac echocardiography and TOE were used to guide appointment of the Amplatzer muscular VSD occluder. We successfully crossed the VSD from the right atrium, using a multipurpose catheter, Terumo glide sheath and a Terumo wire. Contrast injections were performed in the right ventricle and the left ventricle to confirm position of the catheter and wire . An exchange length Amplatz extra stiff wire was positioned in the left ventricle. A sheath could not be advanced over the wire alone. The VSD was recrossed with a Terumo wire in a Cook destination sheath and the sheath was successfully advanced over the introducer into the left ventricle. A 12 mm Amplatzer muscular VSD occluder was then delivered and deployed under fluoroscopic and TOE guidance . The device did not affect tricuspid or mitral valve function and was distant from the St Jude Bileaflet mechanical prosthesis in the aortic position . There were no complications related to the procedure.
