A 63-year-old Caucasian woman presented with a history of chest pain (Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) class II) and shortness of breath that had progressively worsened with ordinary exertion during the previous three months (New York Heart Association (NYHA) grade III) and had caused significant limitations on her activities of daily living. She reported hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia and obesity grade 1 (World Health Organization classification). She also had a history of unstable angina for which she had received medical treatment in 2004, when an angiogram revealed that she had occlusion of the distal portion of the anterior descending artery. She had a new episode in 2008, when she underwent angioplasty with a stent in the circumflex artery. After this surgery, she was asymptomatic until July 2010, when she returned to the hospital because of episodes of chest pain associated with dyspnea during moderate exertion. Her physical examination at that time was unremarkable, and medical treatment was optimized. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed normal systolic function (ejection fraction=0.75) but significant concentric left ventricular hypertrophy that was greater in the mid-apical region . Her intra-ventricular gradient was 36mm Hg. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging confirmed significant hypertrophy of the median segments of the LV, including 24mm of the medial portion of the inferoseptal segment, that was causing obstruction of the ventricular cavity during systole . A coronary angiogram revealed chronic occlusion of the anterior descending artery and stent in the circumflex artery free of obstructions. A left-side ventriculogram demonstrated significant hypertrophy in the mid-apical region with apical dyskinesia  and an intraventricular gradient of 100mm Hg. The case was discussed with the cardiac surgery team. Because a myectomy with a transaortic technique was thought to be difficult to perform in her case because of her midapical hypertrophy, the procedure was performed using a transapical approach . In the follow-up beyond 30 days, the patient's NYHA class improved from III to I, and her CCS class improved from II to I. Furthermore, the medication being used was significantly reduced postoperatively (from seven to four). New NMR imaging was performed after the surgery, and it confirmed the disappearance of themid-ventricular pressure gradient. Additionally, there was a reduction in the total myocardial septum mass from 220g to 162g .
