On March 6, 2012, a 43-year-old Chinese businessman with a 5-year medical history of hypertension presented with recurrent chest pain and chest tightness commencing six months prior to his admission to the Cardiology Department of the First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University. The patient denied any history food and drug allergies and endemic water exposure. On January 16, 2012, the patient had been admitted to our hospital for treatment of fever, persistent severe headaches with chills, nausea and vomiting. On admission, his temperature was 39°C, he had nuchal rigidity and was Kernig sign positive but Brudzinski sign negative, with other components of his physical examination found to be non-contributory. Laboratory tests of CSF showed the following: WBC, 146/μL; LY, 91%; Pandy test positive; Pro, 2,767 mg/L; Glu, 1.9 mmol/L; Cl − 106, mmol/L. Intracranial infection was clinically suspected, with tuberculous meningitis primarily considered; therefore, the patient was administered the standard tuberculosis control regimen of isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol (HRZE). During the course of treatment, however, rifampicin (RFP) was discontinued due to impaired hepatic function. The patient was then started on diammonium glycyrrhizinate treatment, which gradually improved the hepatic function. Eventually, the patient's condition stabilized, his temperature normalized and the symptoms were markedly resolved. He was discharged 50 days later with continued HZE medication. On March 6, 2012, the patient was again hospitalized complaining of persistent chest tightness and chest pain which progressed dramatically. His temperature was 38.6°C with no chills, coughing or dyspnea at that time. Chest CT imaging indicated a small amount of pericardial effusion but no pulmonary infiltration. Laboratory data revealed the following: platelet count, 36 × 10 9 /L; eosinophils 3.0 × 10 9 /L; Tn, 7.23 ng/mL; creatine kinaseMB (CK-MB), 44 U/L. After hospitalization, the patient's blood pressure decreased gradually to approximately 90/60 mmHg (1 mmHg is equal to 0.133 kPa) with dopamine treatment (3–8 μg/kg/min). His urine volume remained normal and his extremities were warm. During the first three days in hospital, the patient's myocardial enzymes continued to elevate, with Tn rising to 50.0 ng/ml, CK reaching 410 U/L and CK-MB increasing to 52 U/L. Routine blood tests showed marked EC elevation returned to normal on the next day but had risen again to 2.0 × 10 9 /L on the third day. On March 17, 2012, the patient was extubated and conscious and his cardiac function markedly improved. The final diagnosis of eosinophilic myocarditis was confirmed and steroid treatment was started with methylprednisolone pulse therapy (500 mg) daily for the first three days and a maintenance dose of 60 mg for the next seven days. The patient continued to receive a dose of 1 mg/kg/d, which was gradually reduced to 5 mg every two weeks in the longterm follow-up visits. Metoprolol sustained-release tablets (47.5 mg/d), perindopril tablets (2 mg/d) and
