A 76-year-old man of Caucasian ethnicity was hospitalized for syncope 2 years before index hospitalization. Comorbidities included liver cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A) due to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, type-2 diabetes, hypertension, and suspected Alzheimer-type dementia. Etiologically unclear transitory ischemic attacks had been diagnosed before. Holter electrocardiogram (ECG) showed a first-degree atrioventricular block and three episodes of bradycardia with minimal cardiac frequencies of 37bpm that were deemed unlikely as a cause for syncope. Schellong test revealed a hypodynamic cardiac response, that is, his heart rate stayed at 50bpm after change from supine to upright position. Hypoglycemia (under insulin therapy) was not detected prior, during or after hospitalization. A concomitant AKI (AKIN 2, maximum creatinine: 297μmol/L) was regarded as pre-renal, and syncope was attributed to arterial hypotension and hypovolemia. Following intravenous rehydration, he was discharged with spironolactone 150mg/day and propranolol 100mg/day for liver cirrhosis, donepezil 10mg/day for suspected dementia, amlodipine 10mg/day, and insulin subcutaneous injection (average: 50IU/day). At index hospitalization, he (body mass index: 35.2) was admitted with nausea and vomiting for 3 days, as well as dizziness due to a presumed hepatic encephalopathy. On admission, vital parameters including blood pressure (150/ 80mmHg), heart rate (62bpm), and temperature and physical examination including cardiopulmonary state were unrevealing. Specifically, ascites and peripheral edema were absent. He was oriented to person, place, and time. Physical reactions were slowed though. Compared to baseline values prior to hospitalization (serum creatinine: 139μmol/ L, estimated glomerular filtration rate : 43.2μmol/L/ 1.73m 2 ), serum creatinine was elevated on admission . Glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase (0.64), gamma-glutamyltransferase (2.46), and international normalized ratio (1.13) were slightly elevated; serum albumin (31g/L) was decreased. Other laboratory values including inflammation parameters (leukocyte count, C-reactive protein), total serum protein, bilirubin, glutamatepyruvate transaminase, and alkaline phosphatase were within normal range. Partial respiratory insufficiency and metabolic acidosis (pH: 7.326, oxygen partial pressure: 55.8mmHg, carbon dioxide partial pressure: 29.0mmHg, bicarbonate: 14.7mmol/L, base excess: −9.7) were found on admission. His urine test showed microalbuminuria (<300mg/day), microscopic hematuria, and leukocyturia consistent with urinary tract infection. Concomitant medication largely remained unchanged since discharge 2 years ago. ECG showing sinus rhythm and the known firstdegree atrioventricular block was without change since the last ambulatory cardiology check 1 year before. During hospitalization, he was bed-bound. Gastroscopy proved helicobacter-negative gastritis. An intravenous fluid challenge using sterile saline was performed for suspected, however clinically inapparent, hypovolemia. Despite fluid challenge, oliguria suddenly developed shortly after admission, serum creatinine remained high . A pre-and post-renal cause of AKI was excluded. Myocardial infarction as a possible cause of hemodynamic instability was ruled out in repeat laboratory and ECG examinations. Echocardiography showed a normal systolic left-ventricular function, yet left-ventricular hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction accompanied by a mild mitral regurgitation and an enlarged left atrium. Nephrotoxins and/or nephrotoxic medications were not applied. Euglycemia was verified during the whole index hospitalization. Kidney sonography revealed normal-sized kidneys with a centralized arterial perfusion , and an increased renal resistive index (1.0 on both sides) reflecting a diastolic no-flow condition. Of importance, a bradycardia (less than 50bpm) was present during ultrasound. Propranolol was discontinued at once, thereafter urine output improved . In a Holter ECG 3 days following propranolol cessation, an intermittent third-degree atrioventricular block with pauses for less than 3 seconds was found . He was subjected to pacemaker insertion on day 11 after admission. Thereafter, renal function in terms of urine output and serum creatinine remained stable. Beta-blocker therapy was reinstituted. By discharge to a rehabilitation facility 14 days after pacemaker insertion, renal function in terms of serum creatinine further improved , body weight remained constant in comparison to admission, and peripheral edema was absent. At discharge, spironolactone 50mg daily, propranolol 25mg thrice daily, amlodipine (5mg daily), donezepil (10mg daily), and antidiabetic medication including sitagliptin and insulin were maintained. Ramipril (5mg daily), torasemide (20mg daily), acetylsalicylic acid (100mg daily), simvastatin (20mg daily), and pantoprazole (20mg daily) were prescribed. Renal recovery continued after discharge, the prehospitalization level of creatinine was reached within 1 month following discharge. During the 4 months following discharge, amlodipine and ramipril were discontinued. Otherwise, medication has not changed. Syncope has not occurred again. His overall condition improved considerably. He was not bed-bound; he was alert and he could walk short distances with walking aid. Symptoms consistent with hepatic encephalopathy or progressive dementia were not present. Four weeks after discharge, his mini-mental state examination yielded 22 (out of 30) points. A neurologic reassessment was recommended regarding the ongoing donepezil treatment. At 4-months follow-up, sonography of his kidneys showed persistent renal resistive index of 1.0 on both sides .
