A 79 year-old man attended the emergency ward in February 2014 for chills, diarrheas, and a rapid deterioration of his general state of health. The patient was a former heavy smoker and also suffered from alcoholism, dyslipidemia and high blood pressure. He had no history of drug use. Noteworthy medical history consisted in ischemic heart disease treated by coronary angioplasty in 2002, left and right carotid surgery by endarterectomy successively in 2004 and 2008, and a vascular stenting of an abdominal aortic aneurysm in 2010. On admission, hemodynamic status was stable. The pulse rate was 81 beats/min and respiratory rate was normal. Body temperature was 38.5 °C. Interestingly, the auscultation showed light bilateral crackles in the lower third of lungs, a systolic mitral murmur grade III/IV and no carotid murmur. No sign of thrombophlebitis of the lower limbs was found. Laboratory investigations revealed inflammatory markers such as elevated C-reactive protein (114 mg/L), leukocytosis (18 × 10 9 /L) and normocytic anaemia (12 g/dL). Considering the clinical and laboratory investigations, infectious endocarditis (IE) was suspected and the patient was promptly transferred to the department of cardiology. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) visualized a 28.6 mm vegetation on the mitral valve , and a 3D color Doppler showed a severe valve dysfunction with mitral regurgitation, which was consistent with mitral IE on native valve. A complete imaging workup, including spinal cord and brain magnetic resonance imaging, did not detect any other septic location. Of note, abdominal computed tomography did not show any perigraft fluid or other evidence of suspicion of an infected aortic vascular graft. The ocular examination of the patient was normal. Three sets of blood cultures were successively drawn (one set every 12 h) on the day of admission and the day after. Blood cultures were processed with a Bactalert 3D system (BioMérieux, France). Four out of six blood culture bottles (3 anaerobic and 1 aerobic) grew respectively in 7, 8, 24 and 72 h. The remaining aerobic bottles were negative after prolonged incubation (up to 28 days). Gram staining directly performed on the positive blood cultures yielded Gram-positive cocci arranged in clumps. Cultures grew aerobically and anaerobically on Columbia agar plates supplemented with 5 % sheep blood (BioMérieux, Marcy l'Etoile, France) after 24 h of incubation as non-hemolytic, grey, pinpoint colonies. Catalase and oxidase reactions were negative. Phenotypic characterization using API system (BioMérieux, API 20 Strep) did not provide any reliable identification (Aerococcus viridans with a doubtful significance, numerical profile: 4100413). In order to achieve an acute bacterial identification the strain was sent to our laboratory (Nice University Hospital). Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ ionization time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry using Microflex LT with Biotyper v2.3 database (Bruker Daltonics, Bremen, Germany) directly on colonies identified Helcococcus kunzii (log score value of 2.38 matching with H. kunzii type strain CIP 103932T). Identification was confirmed by 16S rDNA gene sequencing on colonies using forward (A2: 5' AGAGTTTGATCATGGCTCAG3') and reverse (S15: 5'GGGCGGTGTGTACAAGGCC3') primers as previously described . Blast analysis of the partial 16S rDNA sequence of our strain (1346 nucleotides, deposited in Genebank under accession number KM403388) showed 98.9 % identity (14 nucleotides differences) with 16S rDNA sequence of H. kunzii CIP 103932T deposited in Genbank under accession number X69837 by when they first described this species . Antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST) was performed using the E-test method on Mueller-Hinton agar supplemented with 5 % sheep blood (BioMérieux, Marcy l'Etoile, France) incubated at36 °C in 5 % CO 2 for 24 h according to the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) interpretative standard for Streptococcus species . The strain was highly susceptible to all β-lactams tested. It was also susceptible to clindamycin, and vancomycin, but had reduced susceptibility to gentamicin. The MICs (μg/L) of drugs for this strain are reported in . The patient was initially treated empirically with intra-venous amoxicillin (100 mg/ kg per day) and gentamicin adapted to the renal function. Once the results of the blood cultures were available, the treatment was followed by intra-venous amoxicillin monotherapy (100 mg/kg per day) for a total duration of 4 weeks. 5 days after admission, the patient underwent a mitral valve replacement with a bioprosthestic valve. Vegetation length (>15 mm) is a strong predictor of new embolic-event and constituted therefore a major indication for mitral valve surgery in this patient according to the guidelines of the European society of cardiology . Bacteriological analysis of the mitral valve was negative after 5 days of incubation but there was not enough valve tissue remaining for 16S rDNA PCR analysis. A total of three blood culture sets at days 5 and 6 after admission remained negative despite prolonged incubation up to 4 weeks. Control echocardiography 3 weeks after surgery resulted normal. Moreover, biological and clinical follow-up at 3 and 6 months confirmed a fullsustained cardiac recovery. At 6 months, the complete physical examination only retrieved right hallux ulceration for which microbiological analysis only detected few colonies of Klebsiella pneumoniae and Staphylococcus epidermidis, but remained negative for anaerobic bacteria.
