A previously healthy 22-year-old woman had suffered from a fever, nausea and the loss of appetite for two days and had been admitted to a local hospital (day 1). She was not in the habit of drinking alcohol, had not been exposed to chemicals or drugs, and had no history of blood transfusion or tattoos. A blood test on this admission showed a serum total bilirubin level of 2.7 mg/dL, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) of 9,020 IU/L, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) of 4,620 IU/L, prothrombin activity of 17.5% and positive IgM-hepatitis B core (HBc) antibody. In addition, she was negative for HBs antigen, anti-HBc and anti-HBs antibody at the time of a blood donation approximately 1 year previously, and her partner was a HBs antigen positive carrier. Therefore, the patient was diagnosed with HBV-related ALF. It was also revealed coincidentally by contrast enhanced computed tomography (CE-CT) that she was pregnant. It was estimated that she was in the 20th week of pregnancy due to the size of the fetus. She was transferred to our hospital on day 2. The laboratory findings on this admission revealed severe liver injury, coagulopathy and a mild renal dysfunction ( . The patient also developed disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Cardiac investigations, including a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) and chest X-ray, were normal and indicated no signs of heart failure ( , 2a). She was treated in the intensive care unit (ICU) and we initiated entecavir and steroid pulse therapy (methylprednisolone 1,000 mg/day for 3 days) along with a transfusion of fresh frozen plasma. Prior to the initiation of the patient's treatment, we, and the obstetrician, explained to the patient and her parents that it may be difficult to save the life of thecell, RBC: red blood cell, TP: total protein, T-bil: total bilirubin, Alb: albumin, D-bil: direct bilirubin, AST: aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, H: lactate dehydrogenase, P: alkaline phosphatase, GTP: gamma glutamiltranspeptidase, T-cho: total cholesterol, TG: triglyceride, BUN: blood urea nitrogen, Cre: creatinine, CK: creatine kinase, CRP: C-reactive protein, ANA: antinuclear antibody, HA: hepatitis A, HCV: hepatitis C virus, EBV: Epstein-Barr virus, EBNA: EBV nuclear antigen, CMV: cytomegalovirus, HGF: hepatocyte growth factor, PT: prothrombin time, APTT: activated partial thromboplastin time, FDP: fibrin degradation product give priority to her treatment. However, she developed grade II hepatic encephalopathy (6) on day 5 and was diagnosed with ALF with a hepatic coma, the acute type. Plasma exchange (PE) and hemodiafiltration (HDF) was started via a catheter inserted into the right femoral vein to the inferior vena cava. Cardiomegaly appeared, the heart rate increased and the blood pressure decreased gradually. Ultimately, it became difficult to withdraw large flows of blood for HDF. Therefore, HDF was changed to continuous HDF (CHDF) for the proper adjustment of the circulating fluid volume (blood flow rate: 75 mL/min, dialysate flow rate: 700 mL/h, replacement flow rate 300 mL/h, and filtration flow rate: 300 mL/h). Moreover, she was intubated under sedation by an intravenous anesthetic and connected to a mechanical ventilator because she was in an excited state and restless. On day 7, the patient suddenly developed cardiac arrest. Although she recovered to sinus rhythm immediately by a chest compression, a chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly, pulmonary congestion and bilateral alveolar infiltration . ECG showed advanced left axis deviation and rSR pattern in precordial lead V1, but there were no findings of ST segment elevation or pathologic Q wave . Ultrasound cardiography (UCG) of the wall motion of the left ventricle revealed diffuse-severe hypokinesis or akinesis in areas other than the base to central part of the posterior wall. The ejection fraction (EF) was estimated to be approximately 17.5% . The patient was diagnosed with acute cardiac myopathy, rather than myocardial ischemia and myocarditis, because the blood flow of the coronary arteries on UCG was normal and the serum levels of myocardial enzymes, such as creatine kinase (CK), were not elevated. Ultrasound showed intrauterine fetal death; however, it was difficult to induce abortion due to DIC. The patient was complicated with severe cardiomyopathy, ARF, DIC and intrauterine fetal death, as well as ALF with a hepatic coma. Her hemodynamics were stabilized by the continuous administration of noradrenaline, and CHDF was effective for the removal of the excess water from the body. The serum ALT levels and prothrombin activity subsequently improved. She spontaneously delivered a dead fetus with minimum hemorrhaging on day 8. UCG on day 11 indicated an improvement of the left ventricular lateral and septal wall motion (EF=33.6%, ). CHDF was terminated on day 11 and she was extubated on day 13. The EF had dramatically improved to 57.2% on day 20 . Although the patient required long-term rehabilitation to improve her respiratory condition, she was discharged from our hospital on day 33.
