Case 1 A 55-year old Caucasian male presented with progressive muscle weakness, unintended weight-loss over a period of 6 months, malaise and exercise dependent dyspnea over a period of 4 weeks. He denied fever or chills but reported episodic light-headedness and shortness of breath. Holter ECG revealed intermittent second and third degree atrio ventricular block. Significant in his past medical history was a 15-year intermittent joint swelling and early morning stiffness, affecting predominantly both ankle joints and the wrists, which led to the diagnosis of sero-negative rheumatoid arthritis. Therapeutic trials with different antirheumatic agents including Methotrexate, Adalimumab, Cyclosporin A, Etanercept and lastly Tocilizumab did not lead to any sustainable remission. Prior to diagnosis of aortic valve endocarditis he was receiving 10 mg prednisolon orally daily, with moderate success. A positive quantiferon-TB test was reported 1 year prior to current admission. At that time, despite lacking clinical signs of active tuberculosis, Isoniazid and Rifampicin therapy was initiated, but stopped shortly thereafter due to severe adverse effects on the patient. Until the current admission, he remained without obvious clinical signs of active tuberculosis. Complete laboratory panels on admission revealed C-reactive protein 90 mg/l, leucocytes count 13 × 10 9 /l and procalcitonin 0.11 g/l. No anemia or elevated markers of myocardial ischemia and liver pathology were apparent. On physical examination, a 3/6 early diastolic decrescendo murmur best heard at the left intercostal space was appreciated. A chest radiograph showed mild cardiomegaly and pulmonary edema. Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiograms demonstrated 13 × 10 mm mobile aortic valve vegetations on the ventricular surface of the aortic valve and severe aortic regurgitation . Because of six negative blood cultures, a presumptive diagnosis of culture-negative aortic and mitral valve endocarditis was made and empiric antibiotic therapy with ampicillin/sulbactam and gentamycin was started. Expedited indication for aortic valve replacement surgery was made and the patient was transferred to the heart surgery unit for operation, which was carried out 2 days later. He underwent tissue aortic valve replacement and intrasurgical transaortic direct visualization of the mitral valve. The mitral valve was merely mildly degenerative but competent and without evidence of endocarditis. After sternotomy, the pericardial tissue was found to be predominantly adherent to the epicard, requiring extensive adhesiolysis before installation of the heart lung machine. The aortic valve was severely degenerated and calcified. At first, no macroscopic evidence of endocarditis was noticed. However, free floating vegetation was visualized on the subvalvular surface of the aortic valve attached between the left and right commissural junction. Specimens from both the aortic valve and pericardium were taken for microbiological and histopathological analysis. Otherwise, surgery progressed without complications and the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit for overnight monitoring. The antibiotic treatment regimen was complemented with vancomycin and rifampicin prior to surgery and was continued until the fourth post surgical day. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) results revealed Tropheryma whipplei as the causative agent. This was confirmed by histopathological visualization of PAS and CD-68 positive macrophages on both aortic and pericardial tissues ( –d). A diagnosis-adapted scheme of the antibiotic regimen was immediately installed, comprising ceftriaxon (4 weeks), meropenem (14 days), and Trimethoprim/Sulfamethoxazol, which was to be continued for 1–2 years depending on clinical and paraclinical response to this therapy regimen. In-hospital stay was prolonged due to persistent grade III° atrial ventricular block necessitating transvenous implantation of a DDD-pacemaker on the 7 th postsurgical day. Then, the patient was transferred to a neighboring primary care center for further intravenous antibiotic treatment and monitoring before starting three weeks of rehabilitation. At one-year follow-up, prednisolon dosage has been tapered and therapy terminated, without current clinical evidence of active arthritis. Regular echocardiographic and clinical evaluation remained stable and positive except for a persistent CRP values ranging between 10 and 25 mg/l but normal leucocytes. Gastroenteroscopic biopsy analysis revealed no evidence of persistent Whipple's disease. Continued regular echocardiographic and clinical check-ups remain imperative for this patient.
