An 80 years old female was referred to our hospital due to severe aortic stenosis and recurrent episodes of decompensated left heart failure. She presented with a history of stroke 7 month ago with no obvious sequelae. Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) confirmed a severe aortic stenosis with a mean pressure gradient of 58 mmHg and aortic valve opening area 0.6 cm 2. Extra-cardiac arterial disease involving carotid, intra-cranial and lower limb arteries was confirmed through vascular ultrasound and MRI angiogram. Preoperative CT angiogram revealed a heavily calcified aortic valve with aortic annulus diameter 25 mm (derived from annulus perimeter). After interdisciplinary assessment, the patient was scheduled for trans-apical aortic valve implantation because of a significantly increased risk for conventional surgery. (Logistic EuroSCORE = 28%). The informed consent was obtained after discussing all available treatment options. Ethic committee of our hospital also approved this procedure. The procedure was performed under general anesthesia in a fully equipped hybrid operating room. Prior to skin incision, a femoral 'safety-net' (percutaneous wires in the femoral vessels) was placed and a readily primed CPB machine was available in the room for immediate CPB if required. Temporary pacemaker was placed in the right ventricle through right internal jugular vein and then the standard apical access was obtained. A cranial leftanterior-oblique angulation was chosen by adjusting the angulation of the fluoroscopic system which could provide good visualization of each commissure of the aortic valve. The apical puncture was done with a super-stiff guide-wire placed in position. The standard apical aortic valvuloplasty was performed using a straight 24-mm balloon under rapid ventricular pacing (RVP). In parallel, a 27-mm J-Valve™ was crimped into the Ausper-AS delivery system (JC Medical Inc., Florida, California, USA) . The delivery system was bluntly inserted into the left ventricle and advanced under fluoroscopic guidance into a supra-annular position . In the next step, the three 'U-shape graspers' were totally released and care was taken to bring each grasper into the corresponding aortic sinus by gently pulling back the delivery system, thereby embracing the native leaflets . The correct position was identified on both fluoroscopy as well as transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE). Then the valve was pulled back gently into the annular plan with the guidance of the graspers and deployed without rapid ventricular beating . After retrieval of the delivery system, aortic root angiography revealed only trivial para-valvular leakage with patent coronaries and good valve stent position . TEE also confirmed a good valve position with only trivial grade para-valvular leakage . After wound closure, the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit. Further postoperative course was uneventful. At discharge, TTE revealed an excellent valve function without any relevant incompetence and obvious paravalvular leakage. The maximum and mean transvalvular gradients were 18 and 11 mmHg measured
