A 52-year old Cameroonian male patient with history of HIV infection diagnosed four years earlier, current cigarette smoking and heavy alcohol consumption for more than ten years was referred to the cardiology department of the Yaounde Central hospital for gradually worsening shortness of breath on minimal exertion, fatigue, persistent dry cough, lower extremity swelling of about two weeks duration. He did not have any history of hypertension or family history of heart disease. His HIV treatment regimen consisted of zidovudine, nevirapine and efavirenz. On admission he was alert and awake, but complained of mild respiratory distress. His vital parameters were: heart rate at 110 beats per minute and a blood pressure of 102/ 83 mmHg. There was elevated jugular venous pressure, displaced apex beat to the 6 th intercostal space, bilateral basal rales, and lower extremity edema. The heart sounds were faint, with frequent premature beats; there was no S3 and no murmurs. Relevant laboratory tests were within normal limits. Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly, bilateral interstitial infiltrates. Serologies for hepatitis B and C were negative. He had a CD4 count of 135/mm 3. The electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm, poor R wave progression inprecordials, with pathological Q waves in leads V1, V2, V3, V4, V5, leads I and aVL. Two-dimensional Echocardiography demonstrated a dilated left ventricle  with severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction (ejection fraction = 20%), with akinesis of the apex and, hypokinesis of the other segments of the left ventricle. There was mild mitral and severe tricuspid regurgitation, dilatation of the inferior vena cava as well as right and left ventricular masses . Both masses were dense than myocardium, acoustically distinct from underlying myocardium, well circumscribed, filling the apex of the left ventricle and the right ventricle. The right ventricular mass measured 28.7 mm × 33.9 mm while the left ventricular mass measured 29.5 mm × 45 mm. The masses were not mobile and prominent in the apical four chamber view. Bilateral ventricular thrombi were diagnosed. Cardiac catherization was not performed to explore the coronary anatomy. The diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy was made, complicated with biventricular thrombi in an HIV infected patient. There was no clinical evidence of thrombosis at other sites. Conventional treatment for congestive heart failure was started with loop diuretics and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and he showed significant improvement of symptoms. Low molecular weight heparin was administered for the biventricular thrombi which was later on substituted with oral vitamin K antagonist (acenocoumarol) after overlapping with a target international normalized ratio (INR) between 2 and 3. The patient was discharged on day 12 on oral anticoagulation after he was reviewed by the HIVspecialist. Six months later, a control echocardiography showed a near complete dissolution of the right ventricular thrombus and a marked decrease in the left ventricular thrombus ; there was no evidence of neither pulmonary nor systemic embolization. Follow up INR were sub-therapeutic and the patient did not turn up for regular scheduled follow up visits to assess efficacy of anticoagulation and dose adjustments. There was no bleeding related to oral anticoagulation.
