The patient was a 20-year old male with dilated cardiomyopathy and tethering mitral regurgitation (MR) from left ventricular enlargement. A cardiac murmur was discovered at 6-years of age and he was diagnosed as having dilated cardiomyopathy from endomyocardial biopsy. Oral medication therapy including enalapril, furosemide and spironolactone was started. When he was 15 years-old, the left ventricular diastolic diameter (LVDd) was 57 mm with moderate to severe MR. A small dose of carvedilol was initiated, but he still suffered from dyspnea on effort and fatigue. At 19 years-old, his LV was markedly enlarged (LVDd 75 mm) with an elevated plasma level of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP, 121 pg/mL). Subsequently he was admitted to hospital because of the worsening symptom and received intensive medical therapy, but no improvement was observed. He was referred to our department for further treatment. His blood pressure and heart rate wereenzyme. The only exception was an elevated plasma level of BNP (412 pg/mL). From transthoracic echocardiography, the LVDd, left atrial diameter, and EF were 79 mm, 70 mm, and 31%, respectively. Medication consisted of 40 mg furosemide, 50 mg spironolactone, 10 mg enalapril, and 20 mg carvedilol. We soon started continuous infusion of dobutamine at 2 μg/kg/minute. Though his symptoms improved slightly, AF occurred suddenly on day 13 . The rate of AF was 140-180 bpm and was easily accelerated by exertion. He complained of palpitations and nausea because of low output syndrome. Due to the rapid AF, systolic blood pressure fell to 70 mmHg and oliguria was observed. Moreover, total bilirubin was elevated (1.6 mg/dL). Even though we injected 0.25 mg digoxin intravenously at first, the rate several hours after the injection was still approximately 150-180 bpm. Because intravenous digoxin infusion had no effect on controlling his heart rate, we decided to administer a low dose of landiolol (2 μg/kg/minute). Two hours after landiolol administration, the heart rate at rest was significantly decreased at 120-130 bpm without deterioration of blood pressure (systolic blood pressure was approximately 70 mmHg). Because his heart rate was easily accelerated by exertion or diet to 140-150 bpm, we raised the landiolol dose to 4 μg/kg/minute the next day. Subsequently, the heart rate at rest diminished to 110 bpm. Because his heart rate was still 130140 bpm at exertion, we titrated the dose of landiolol with careful attention to hemodynamics, finally up to 8 μg/kg/ minute on day 16. At that time his heart rate was 110-120 bpm at even exertion and the systolic blood pressure was maintained at approximately 70 mmHg. We aimed for 110 bpm based on the result of the RACE II study. 7) The heart rate of AF was stabilized at approximately 100-110 bpm and total bilirubin decreased. We administered 200 mg/day amiodarone orally on day 16 to reinforce the heart rate control and anticipated a rhythm control effect. Right heart catheterization was performed on day 19. Mean right atrial pressure was 10 mmHg, mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was 21 mmHg, mean pulmonary artery pressure was 28 mmHg, cardiac index was 2.56 L/minute/m 2 (thermo-dilution method), and mean systemic blood pressure was 53 mmHg. Because the cardiac index was preserved under rate control and remodeling of the left atrium was severe, we did not perform direct current defibrillation. On day 20, his rhythm recovered to sinus rhythm, although the BNP level was still high (780 pg/mL). As he regained regular rhythm, we inserted an intra-aortic balloon pumping (IABP) on day 22 because the mean systemic blood pressure was under 60 mmHg and oliguria was still present. Landiolol was discontinued after sinus conversion. On the same day, our institutional review board approved a heart transplantation and an implantable left ventricular assist device (LVAD). On day 26, he successfully received an implantable LVAD (HeartMate II ® , Thoratec Corporation, Pleasanton, CA, USA) . He was discharged on day 70 without any major complications.
