An 8-year-old-boy was admitted to our hospital with complaints of progressive breathlessness and intermittent fever for last one month. He previously underwent aortic valve replacement (21 mm St. Jude prosthetic valve) for congenital aortic stenosis, almost a year back. He was treated for suspected infective endocarditis (culture negative) elsewhere. A 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed sinus tachycardia with normal QTc interval (0.42 sec), normal progression of R waves and left bundle branch block pattern. A 2D echocardiography with color doppler revealed severe left ventricular dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) 25%) with stuck aortic valve (no vegetations). He developed hemodynamically stable ventricular tachycardia after admission and was started on intravenous amiodarone. His initial blood cultures were negative and baseline sepsis screen was negative. He underwent repeat aortic valve replacement (19 mm TTK Chitra aortic mechanical tilting disc prosthesis). Intraoperative findings revealed stuck aortic valve with vegetations; valve tissue was sent for histological and microbiological study, which grew carbapenem resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae. Postoperative trans-esophageal echocardiography revealed biventricular dysfunction (LVEF 10-15%), and no residual gradient across aortic valve. He had sinus bradycardia with intermittent atrioventricular (AV) dissociation with slow ventricular conduction; amiodarone was tapered over 36 hours and he was maintained on overdrive AV sequential pacing. The patient was in low cardiac output state with fluctuating hemodynamics on moderate inotropic support. On 2nd postoperative day, patient developed recurrent episodes of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia with unstable hemodynamics on controlled ventilation . Arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis revealed normal electrolytes and acid base physiology. In next 8 hours, 45 DC shocks (up to 8J/kg) were delivered due to recurrence of VTs after transient reversion to sinus rhythm. He also received two boluses of intravenous (IV) amiodarone (5 mg/kg) and repeated doses of IV lidocaine (1 mg/kg) followed by their infusions. Since the patient was poorly responsive, he was also started on IV esmolol infusion after bolus. There was no significant change in QTc interval despite multiple doses of amiodarone. Magnesium sulphate and glucoseinsulin-potassium infusion did not convert the arrhythmia. Finally, it was controlled with deep sedationand paralysis with fentanyl, midazolam and vecuronium, with infusions of lidocaine at 40 μg/kg/min, amiodarone at 20 μg/kg/min and esmolol at 100 μg/kg/min. Post-event, he had LVEF of 10% with septal and apical akinesis, borderline low blood pressure and high left atrial pressure. Inotropic support was reoptimized with dobutamine and milrinone, and ventilation was continued for next 72 hours. His left ventricular function gradually improved and he was extubated on 6th postoperative day with normal neurological status. He was continued on oral amiodarone, metoprolol and acetyltolinesterase inhibitors. At follow-up 14 days later, he was in sinus rhythm consistently.
