P atients awaiting orthotropic heart transplant (OHT) often require temporary mechanical circulatory support. Although the intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) placed through percutaneous femoral arteriotomy is the most commonly used form of mechanical circulatory support in the United States, this approach requires the patient to remain immobile, making it suboptimal for extended use. Our center recently developed a novel technique to insert an IABP through the subclavian artery (SCA), 1 allowing the patient to ambulate. Briefly, a polytetrafluoroethylene graft is anastomosed in an end-to-side fashion to the right or left SCA. A valve is secured within the other end of the graft, and the IABP is advanced through the graft into the descending aorta. The proximal radio-opaque IABP marker is positioned 2 cm superior to the carina with the distal marker near the L2 vertebra. Although several groups have reported various techniques for SCA IABP insertion, 2,3 no consensus exists regarding the optimal position of the distal tip. We report 2 cases of IABP migration into the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) with associated bowel ischemia.
A 60-year-old, 180 cm tall man with a Maquet 8F 50cc right SCA IABP complained of nonbloody diarrhea and severe abdominal pain radiating to the back 6 days after implant. He denied urinary symptoms and had no history of pancreatic, hepatic, or ulcerative disease. On physical examination, there was diffuse abdominal tenderness without peritoneal signs or distention. Bowel sounds were intact. Laboratories and ultrasonography of the liver, pancreas, and biliary system were unremarkable. Anteroposterior chest x-ray showed the proximal IABP marker in proper position 2 cm superior to the carina  and the distal tip in stable position from prior . Vascular ultrasound showed the distal IABP tip in stable position in the aorta, 3 cm inferior to the origin of the SMA ( ; Movie I in the Data Supplement) and nonobstructive waveforms (with counterpulsation) in all abdominal vessels ( and 2C). The following day, the patient observed that the pain was inconsistently associated with eating and was occasionally associated with simply sitting upright for more than several minutes. Interestingly, the pain did not occur every time he ate or sat up but was invariably relieved when he would lie supine. Repeat vascular ultrasound with the patient sitting upright showed the distal IABP tip entering and obstructing the SMA ( ; Movie II in the Data Supplement). Extension of the torso while lying supine caused the IABP tip to pull out of the SMA ( ; Movie III in the Data Supplement). Repeating these provocative maneuvers revealed that the IABP tip would either advance down the descending aorta or move into the SMA when the patient sat upright. When the IABP did enter the SMA, the hemodynamic obstruction was significant . The patient returned to the operating room, and the IABP was repositioned under fluoroscopy farther down the abdominal aorta. The patient's symptoms resolved and he was bridged successfully to OHT after 15 days of support.
A 53-year-old, 175 cm tall man with a Maquet 8F 50cc right SCA IABP developed maroon stools and abdominal pain 7 days after implant. The positional nature of the pain was similar to Case 1. Because of the melena, the patient underwent an esophagogastroduodenoscopy, and when this failed to reveal a source of bleeding, a colonoscopy. This showed ischemic colitis at the cecum with adherent clot  that had not been present
