The patient, who provided informed consent for the publication of this case report, was a 67-year-old Japanese man with arrhythmia controlled by a pacemaker for the past five years; the device had been inserted at another hospital. Prior to admission, he had experienced a recurrent fever for three months despite receiving antibiotic treatment. He was subsequently referred to Okayama University Hospital, where aortic valve vegetation measuring 6 mm in diameter was observed on echocardiography. He was therefore admitted to the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine. The clinical results for the causative pathogen (blood isolates) obtained using the automated VITEK system (SYSMEX bioMérieux, Tokyo, Japan) identified G. elegans, which was detected in independent blood cultures performed on three consecutive days ( , and a diagnosis of IE was made. No signs of infection suspected to be related to IE were observed, including in the urinary, intestinal or biliary tract. As G. elegans is a component of the oral mucosal flora (10), four days after admission, the patient was referred by his physician to the Division of Hospital Dentistry for an oral examination and treatment, if necessary. Generally, periodontitis is diagnosed by measuring the pocket depth and degree of loss of attachment using a periodontal probe supplemented by radiographic findings (11, 12). The radiographs indicated that the patient had previously suffered from mild chronic periodontitis; however, it had been well controlled with good plaque control. The gingiva did not show any inflammatory redness , and a periodontal pocket examination (6 points per tooth) indicated that the patient did not have any deep periodontal pockets (range: from 1 to 3 mm, which is within the normal range) or bleeding on probing, indicating a lack of inflammation in the gingiva. The patient performed daily brushing with an ultrasonic toothbrush and had a high level of awareness of oral hygiene; there was no visible dental plaque. An oral bacterial sample was obtained by swabbing the buccal and gingival mucosa over as large an area as possible in order to confirm the presence of identical isolates of the IE pathogen. An examination of the similarity of the bacteria identified in the blood and oral cavity was performed as described in the Materials and Methods section. The IE was initially treated with antibiotics on the following schedule (shown in days after admission): days 1-3, VCM 0.5 g × 4 + GM 60 mg × 3; days 4-7, ABPC/SBT 3 g × 4 + GM 60 mg × 3; days 8-26: ABPC 2 g × 4 + GM 90 mg × 2. The pacemaker was removed on day 8 after admission. Enterococcus faecium was isolated from the right ventricular (RV) pacing lead according to the proliferation culture method, whereas no bacteria were detected on the right atrium pacing lead or in the pacemaker pocket ( . Although the pacemaker had been inserted five years previously, the lead was easily removed. E. faecium was detected only once and not identified in any of the other cultures (Table). Blood cultures were positive on days 1, 2, 3, 7 and 10 after admission. All bacteria detected using the automated VITEK system (SYSMEX bioMérieux) were found to be G. elegans, and all isolates showed similar antibiotic sensitivity. After day 11, all blood cultures were negative. No antibiotics were used after day 27, and no signs of infection were subsequently observed. However, despite four weeks of antibiotic administration, aortic valve vegetation continued to be detected on echocardiography, and aortic valve replacement surgery was thus performed on day 56. An area of vegetation measuring 6 mm in diameter was identified attached to the right coronary cusp with perforation, with a small area of vegetation attached to the noncoronary cusp. Modified bilateral maze and permanent pacemaker implantation were additionally performed. The surgery was successful, and the patient was discharged from the hospital on day 79 after admission (postoperative day 23).
