A 61-year-old man with dilated cardiomyopathy was referred to our hospital because of drug-refractory heart failure. Echocardiography showed an enlarged left ventricle with a low ejection fraction of 22%, and New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III heart failure was noted. His plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) concentration was 1793 pg/mL. Sinus rhythm with a narrow QRS complex of 112 ms was seen on the electrocardiogram (ECG) . Despite β-blocker (carvedilol), diuretic (furosemide), and methyldigoxin (lanirapid) therapy, the patient had been hospitalized repeatedly for acute-congestive heart failure. The β-blocker dosage was 1.25 mg/day, which we thought might be inadequate. We attempted to increase the dosage, but the patient did not tolerate the increase well; hypotension and dizziness ensued. Therefore, although the QRS complex was narrow, we decided to apply cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) before trying again to increase the β-blocker dosage. A CRT pacemaker (CRT-P, Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN, USA) was implanted without complication. After implantation of the right ventricular (RV) lead in the RV apex, coronary venography was performed, and a lateral branch was identified as a candidate vessel for left ventricular (LV) lead implantation. The LV lead was positioned at the midportion of the lateral branch, which was located at an angle opposite to and that provided the most distance from the RV lead. The LV pacing threshold was 1.0 V at 0.5 ms without phrenic nerve stimulation. The right atrial (RA) lead was then positioned at the RA appendage. The device and leads used were the InSync III 8042 pulse generator, 5076 52-cm RV lead, 4196 LV lead, and 5076 45-cm RA lead (Medtronic). The RV pacing threshold was 0.5 V at 0.4 ms, and the RA pacing threshold was 1.0 V at 0.4 ms. Because sinus node function was normal, the device was programmed to DDD mode with a lower rate limit of 60 bpm, AV delay of 150 ms, and VV delay of 0 ms. This is the setting used routinely at our institution for the initial programming of a newly implanted pacemaker. Unfortunately, after CRT-P implantation, the QRS complex widened to 142 ms , and the patient's general condition worsened. Two-months later, he was re-admitted for heart failure, and intravenous dobutamine and milrinone drip were started. We checked the CRT-P status; the pacing threshold was good, and biventricular pacing was working properly. We sought to optimize the AV delay by looking at the QRS width on the ECG, and we decided to program the AV delay that yielded the narrowest QRS to achieve the maximum CRT effect. We did not optimize VV delay because an effect of VV delay optimization was unknown. We prolonged the AV delay in 10-ms increments while looking at the QRS width on the ECG and found the optimal delay to be 170 ms. Under this setting, the ECG showed a fusion beat, and the QRS width was 114 ms . With this AV delay optimization, the patient's condition improved dramatically. His chest X-ray also improved in appearance , and he was discharged. One month after AV delay optimization, we succeeded in increasing the β-blocker dosage to 2.5 mg; however, a further increase brought about dizziness and hypotension. The patient has been free of symptoms and maintained NYHA class I functional status for 3 years. Reverse remodeling was confirmed by echocardiography, and his plasma BNP has remained under 50 pg/mL .
