A non-febrile 77-year-old French woman from North France was admitted to the hospital for faintness and neurological deficit with right hemiplegia and aphasia. The patient had a history of a graft replacement of her aortic valve 4 years before. Laboratory values revealed increased C-reactive protein and white blood cell count. Liver enzyme levels were normal. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed two recent ischemic areas and CT scanning showed linear hypodensity in the posterior part of the spleen and two hypodense areas of the cortex of the right kidney. Based on the numerous ischemic zones, a cardiac cause was suspected. Transesophageal echocardiogram showed diffuse thickening of the bioprosthesis; mobile, high-potential-embolic, bioprosthesis stenosis; and intra-prosthetic aortic insufficiency. PET scan revealed intense fluorodeoxyglucose uptake around the metal ring of the aortic graft . The valve bioprosthesis was replaced, and treatment with amoxicillin and clavulanic acid (12 g/day) and gentamycin (120 mg 2 times per day) was started. Gram staining and standard cultures of the valve and blood were all negative. A valve sample was sent to our reference center in Marseille. DNA was extracted from this sample using a QIAamp tissue kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Then, DNA extracts were tested by qPCR for the presence of Tropheryma whipplei, Coxiella burnetti, Bartonella sp., Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus faecium, Mycoplasma pneumonia, Streptococcus oralis, Streptococcus gallolyticus, Escherichia coli and fungi . All assays were negative except those for T. whipplei. A second qPCR assay targeting repeated sequences of T. whipplei confirmed the diagnosis. In addition, PCR amplification and sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene was also positive for T. whipplei. Genotyping was performed as previously described and showed that this T. whipplei was genotype 16. Immunohistochemical staining of the valve for T. whipplei was positive 
. Culturing of the valve was negative. A course of 200 mg oral doxycycline once per day with 200 mg hydroxychloroquine three times per day for 18 months was introduced. The diagnosis for this patient was T. whipplei endocarditis in the context of a bioprosthetic aortic valve.
