The patient was diagnosed as TA with normally related great arteries, pulmonary atresia and LVNC by fetal echocardiography. There was no family history of cardiomyopathy. Unfavourable prognosis associated with LVNC was anticipated. A staged Fontan strategy was decided upon after the repeated discussions with his family and medical staff. He was born by normal vaginal delivery (37-week gestation period, body weight at birth of 2540 g). Echocardiography revealed prominent trabeculations and deep intratrabecular recesses in the left ventricular wall . Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 30%. Enhanced computed tomography showed spongiform myocardium. Elective right modified Blalock-Taussig shunt using expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) graft, 4 mm in diameter as well as balloon atrial septostomy was performed at the age of 1 month. Cardiac catheter examination at the age of 4 months showed LVEF of 32%, LV end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) of 82% of normal, LV end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) of 8 mmHg, superior vena cava (SVC) pressure of 11 mmHg, inferior vena cava (IVC) pressure of 10 mmHg and pulmonary artery resistance (Rp) of 1.5 Wood unit m 2 . No coronary artery abnormality was detected. Administration of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor Imidapril at a dose of 0.05 mg/kg/day was started in order to prevent the progression of cardiac dysfunction. We also planned an early Fontan completion aimed at reducing the ventricular volume overload. An elective bidirectional Glenn procedure was performed on the beating heart with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) when the patient was 6 months old with a body weight of 6.0 kg. The beta-blocker Carvedilol was added at a dose of 0.03 mg/kg/day after this surgery. Imidapril and Carvedilol were titrated up to 0.125 and 0.3 mg/kg/day, respectively, in the outpatient setting. Cardiac catheter examination at the age of 2 years showed improved LVEF of 52%, LVEDV of 262% of normal, LVEDP of 11 mmHg, SVC pressure of 11 mmHg, IVC pressure of 7 mmHg and Rp of 1.0 Wood unit m2. Based on these catheterization data, a Fontan completion (extracardiac total cavopulmonary connection using 18-mm ePTFE graft with fenestration) was performed on the beating heart with CPB at a body weight of 12.0 kg. The weaning from CPB was uneventful with systemic blood pressure of 80/mmHg, central venous pressure of 10 mmHg, left atrial pressure of 5 mmHg and Sp O2 of 98–100%. Medication including Coumadin was started soon after the operation. He was discharged with an LVEF of 52% by echocardiography and an Sp O2 of 98% on room air on the 25thpostoperative day. Contrast echocardiography revealed spontaneous closure of the fenestration. He is doing well with good cardiac function at the outpatient clinic after 1 year after the operation .
