Case report 1 A 24 year old female patient in 2002 at the age of 12 underwent a Ross procedure due to severe congenital aortic valve stenosis. During the follow-up, in the last year the aortic root dilated from 30 mm to 34 mm. Other findings were mild aortic regurgitation and mild pulmonary valve stenosis (mean gradient 15 mmHg) with no progression. The patient is still under surveillance and clinically is on NYHA class II. A 29 year old female patient in 2002 at the age of 17 underwent a Ross procedure due to a congenital severe aortic valve stenosis combined with regurgitation. During the follow-up the aortic root and the ascending aorta gradually dilated to 52 mm and 50 mm respectively with also mild to moderate aortic regurgitation . In 2014 she underwent a redo-Bentall operation with the replacement of the dilated aorta and aortic valve with a mechanical conduit ATS 22 mm/26 mm (Medtronic Inc MN USA). After the operation the patient is stable and is doing well.
A male patient in the year 2000 at the age of 10 underwent a Ross procedure due to severe aortic valve regurgitation combined with stenosis. During the operation also annuloplasty of the aortic ring was done because of the difference between the native aortic ring and the pulmonary autograft diameters. In 2007 he underwent balloon dilation of the pulmonary valve due to severe Case report 2, transthoracic echocardiogram parasternal long axis-ascending aorta before the operation stenosis with a decrease of the peak gradient from 80 mmHg to 30 mmHg. During the follow-up aortic root and ascending aorta gradually dilated to 50 mm and 56 mm respectively. Aortic regurgitation was mild. Moreover the pulmonary stenosis after the balloon dilatation also deteriorated with a mean gradient of 57 mmHg. The patient suffered from pulmonary hypertension (PAP 52 mmHg) and moderately dilated right ventricle. In 2010 the patient was referred to surgery for replacement of the aortic root, the ascending aorta and the pulmonary valve. Unfortunately, the patient died from aortic rupture before surgery during the preoperative evaluation. The event took place in the hospital and the patient was rushed to the operating room where the cause of death was found.
