An 86-year-old woman presented with worsening breathlessness on exertion. There was no significant medical history apart from hypertension. Her initial transthoracic echocardiogram at rest demonstrated mild mitral regurgitation with an elongated anterior leaflet, significant calcification of the mitral annulus, asymmetrical septal hypertrophy of 16 mm, with preserved left ventricular function. The initial management plan was to treat her medically, but despite this, her symptoms continued to progress. Dobutamine stress echocardiography demonstrated an increase in the LVOT velocity from 2 to 6 mÁs À1 and a peak mean LVOT gradient of 62 mm Hg. This was associated with SAM ( (a)). Given her good comorbid status, surgery was offered. We opted to treat the underlying pathology by reducing the height of the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve and performing a septal myectomy, given her annular dimensions were within normal limits. The surgical approach was through a generous hockey-stick aortotomy, where a crescent of 8 Â 2 mm of the anterior leaflet close to the annulus was excised, and a myectomy was performed. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography with dobutamine stress testing after termination of cardiopulmonary bypass did not demonstrate any SAM, with a residual peak LVOT velocity of 2 mÁs À1. Postoperative recovery was uneventful. Histology ofDepartment of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, UK Corresponding author: Haralabos Parissis, PhD, Cardiothoracic Department, Royal Victoria Hospital, West Wing, Grosvenor Road, Belfast BT12 6BA, UK. Email: hparissis@yahoo.co.uk the septal myectomy specimen showed no obliterative small vessel disease and no muscle fiber disarray or interstitial fibrosis. At follow-up, the patient remained clinically well with a significant improvement in exercise tolerance.
An 80-year-old man presented with progressive exertional breathlessness. Transthoracic echocardiography at rest demonstrated bileaflet prolapse with mitral regurgitation, significant mitral annular calcification, and severe aortic stenosis. There was mild asymmetric septal hypertrophy with the suggestion of possible SAM, given the redundant anterior leaflet of the mitral valve ( (b)
). Coronary angiography revealed 2-vessel coronary artery disease. He underwent mitral valve repair, bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement, and double-vessel coronary artery bypass with vein grafts to the left anterior descending and obtuse marginal arteries. At surgery, the findings were in keeping with advanced degenerative mitral valve disease, with elongated chordae to both leaflets and significant posterior annular calcification. Decalcification was carried out on the posterior annulus, with no patch required to restore left atrial-to-left ventricular continuity. The ''respect and not resect'' approach was applied with neochordae construction to both leaflets, with the aim of restoring competence. A size 30 Physio II ring was inserted, with careful attention to avoid any postoperative SAM, given the fact that no leaflet tissue was excised. Both a saline test and post-cardiopulmonary bypass intraoperative echocardiography demonstrated a trace of mitral regurgitation with no SAM. The postoperative course was complicated by acute renal failure and respiratory tract infection. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 19, and was doing well on follow-up.
