A 54-year old man underwent an elective redo mitral valve (MV) plasty for recurrent severe mitral regurgitation (MR). The previously reconstructed chordae had ruptured, and prolapse of segment P2 of the posterior mitral leaflet was prominent. The prior 28-mm annuloplasty ring was removed, triangular resection and suturing of prolapsed segments was performed, and a 26-mm semi-rigid annuloplasty ring was applied. Water testing showed no regurgitation. After the heart resumed beating, intraoperative transoesophageal echocardiography revealed massive MR, which appeared to result from systolic anterior motion (SAM). Despite several attempts to reduce the SAM, including fluid transfusion, discontinuation of inotropic agents and β-blocker administration, the associated MR was not controlled. Thus, we arrested the heart again and examined the MV. Water testing confirmed no regurgitation. The 26-mm annuloplasty ring was removed and an additional pair of artificial chordae was implanted in the remaining P2–P3 portion to move the coaptation point to a more posterior position. Water testing again showed no regurgitation. When the heart resumed beating, moderate MR and turbulent flow at the left ventricular (LV) outflow tract during the systolic phase persisted. The additional treatments did not achieve further attenuation of MR. Neither atrial pacing nor right ventricular (RV) pacing helped to attenuate MR ( and B). LV pacing, however, just lateral to the distal portion of the left-anterior descending branch markedly decreased the degree of MR , resulting in avoidance of conversion to valve replacement. Weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass was easily achieved under LV pacing. On postoperative day 2, transthoracic echocardiography revealed only trivial MR even with sinus rhythm and temporary LV pacing could be finally discontinued. Subsequently, LV pacing has not been required, and only trivial MR was observed on transthoracic echocardiography at discharge. Approximately 7 months after the redo surgery, the patient continues to visit our hospital as an outpatient without recurrent SAM or MR.
