We applied the technique presented above in 5 patients. The first patient was a 70-year old woman diagnosed with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III chronic heart failure because of moderate mitral regurgitation and an atrial septal defect with a Q p /Q s of 4.91. Prolapse of the A2 and A3 segments was corrected with three pairs of ePTFE threads. An edge-to-edge repair was used to correct a minor leakage adjacent to the postero-medial commissure. The second patient was a 71-year old man diagnosed with NYHA class III chronic heart failure because of moderate mitral regurgitation. His prolapsing antero-lateral commissure was successfully corrected with two pairs of ePTFE threads. The third patient was a 63-year old man diagnosed with NYHA class II chronic heart failure because of moderate mitral regurgitation combined with severe aortic valve stenosis and coronary artery disease. Prolapse of the A2 segment of the anterior mitral leaflet was successfully corrected with a pair of ePTFE threads. The fourth patient was a 31-year old man who had no symptoms of heart failure, but severe mitral regurgitation because of prolapse of the posterior leaflet (P2 and P3 segments) and the postero-medial commissure. All prolapsing segments were successfully corrected with three pairs of ePTFE threads. The fifth patient, a 79-year old man, had a history of heart failure with severe mitral regurgitation because of prolapse of the posterior leaflet (P2). The prolapsing P2 segment was successfully corrected with a pair of ePTFE threads. Indications for surgery were clear in 4 patients with symptoms of cardiac failure. The fourth patient with no symptoms of cardiac failure had an indication for surgery because his mitral valve was expected to be repaired completely. All patients were found to have absence of, or trivial, mitral valve regurgitation by postoperative transthoracic echocardiography and were discharged without complications. : A set of anchor loops is made just before operation (A) and fixed to the papillary muscle. A slip knot is made in the 'knot arm'. The 'draw arm' is passed through a loop retractor. Thereafter, it is passed again through the slip knot (B). The 'knot arm' is drawn towards the papillary muscle automatically when the 'draw arm' is pulled towards the surgeon to adjust the neochordal length (C and D).
