We carried out studies in a 53-year-old asymptomatic man referred to us because of a systolic heart murmur. The patient had a history of sick sinus syndrome and pacemaker implantation. Physical examination revealed only a grade 2/6 medium pitched left parasternal systolic murmur located at the third and fourth intercostal spaces, but without radiation to the neck. The electrocardiogram showed a normal pacemaker rhythm. Other laboratory data were within normal limits. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) revealed a mobile, echogenic, membrane-like structure that moved into the LVOT with ballooning during systole and occupying the subaortic area . The structure appeared to be adherent to the ventricular side of the anterior mitral valve leaflet and to be attached to the anterolateral papillary muscle with a chordae tendineaelike structure. Significant subaortic obstruction could notbe demonstrated (maximum gradient 19 mm Hg). Twodimensional color Doppler TEE showed trace turbulence in the systolic flow pattern and mild aortic regurgitation. No other congenital heart anomaly was present. The patient was given the diagnosis of AMV tissue based on its echocardiographic characteristics. The findings were discussed with the patient, and surgical resection was recommended because of the possibility of progression of aortic insufficiency and risk of a cerebrovascular embolization. An enhanced cardiac computed tomography (CT) was performed to clarify the anatomy before surgical treatment, which again revealed AMV tissue adhering to the ventricular side of the anterior mitral valve with narrowing of the LVOT. For the surgical procedure, cardiopulmonary bypass was established with bicaval drainage and ascending aortic perfusion, then the ascending aorta was clamped and cardioplegia induced. We made an oblique incision of the ascending aorta, and found that the aortic valve was normal. However in the subvalvular region, mitral valve-like tissue was found to extend from the annulus of the left coronary cusp to the ventricular side of the anterior mitral valve leaflet, and a chordae tendineae-like structure was found to connect the mitral valve-like tissue with the anterolateral papillary muscle. Operative findings confirmed the TEE and CT appearances . The tissue and chordae tendineae-like structure were excised carefully to avoid injury to the aortic valve and mitral valve . The postoperative course was uneventful. Histopathologic examination revealed mitral valve tissue with mucinous degeneration, thereby confirming the preoperative echocardiographic diagnosis of AMV tissue. Postoperatively, echocardiography showed no residual accessory mitral tissue and no mitral regurgitation.
