A 55 years old female presented with dyspnea FC II–III. Physical examination revealed BP = 140/90, HR = 84, H and N: Normal JVP, Cardiac sounds: S1, S2, S4 with II–III/ VI systolic murmur at apex, lungs: clear Abdomen: no pathologic finding, ?1 peripheral edema.
No notable abnormal finding in laboratory tests. ECG showed atrial fibrillation with acceptable ventricular response, left axis deviation, left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and strain pattern in V4–V6. C X ray revealed mild cardiomegaly with normal lung vascularity. Transthoracic echocardiography showed: Normal LV size with mild systolic dysfunction, EF = 45–50 %, severe LVH with asymmetric septal hypertrophy , hypertrabeculated LV with multiple recesses and mild hypokinesia involving base to apex of lateral wall, base and mid of inferior wall and mid to apical portion of anterior wall and non compacted to compacted ratio = 1.6/0.5 = 3 .
. Michels mentioned that LVNC is a cardiomyopathy with wide clinical spectrum which has a common molecular etiology with different cardiomyopathic phenotypes. Monserrat et al.
declared that E101 K mutation in ACTC can cause LVNC and apical HCM. In an MRI study done by Whelan et al.
on 43 HCM patients with pathologic sarcomeric protein mutation (in 49 % of cases), they concluded that the majority of HCM patients meet the diagnostic criteria for LVNC. Yuan et al.
found overlapping phenotypes of HCM and LVNC in one chinese family. The important point in that study was that the areas of non compaction were lateral, apical, anterior, anteroseptal and inferior wall segments. Our patient fulfilled the criteria of both NCLV and HCM. The important point was that involved segments were in anterior wall as well as base of lateral wall which have not been usual in LVNC and this may guide us to revise the criteria of NCLV as the involved areas may be more than what we thought previously or it may suggest the hypothesis of that the coexistence of these two kinds of cardiomyopathy may modify their appearances. Although genetic study was not performed for our patient, the patient showed the phenotypes of both disorders. So in conclusion our patient was another evidence of probability of coexisting phenotypic appearances of HCM and LVNC.
