A 5-year-old half-bred bay stallion, weighing approximately 430 kg and with general emaciation, was referred to the Department of Surgery at the University of Environmental and Life Sciences, Wroclaw, Poland for surgical castration. Cardiac murmurs were heard on clinical examination prior to the surgery, and a cardiologic consultation was subsequently performed. The physical examination revealed (a) loss of muscle mass, which the owner reported as beingprogressive, (b) hypertrophic pododermatitis (equine canker) in all four limbs, (c) subcutaneous oedema and (d) a precordial thrill and a grade 5/6 pansystolic murmur, which was best heard on auscultation in the fourth right intercostal space. A holosystolic heart murmur with its point of maximum intensity in the third left intercostal space was also heard on auscultation. A standard electrocardiographic examination using an analog electrocardiograph (Schiller AT-1, Schiller AG, Switzerland, Europe) revealed a sinus tachycardia of 56 beats/minute without any arrhythmia. An echocardiographic examination was then carried out according to a previously published protocol using an ultrasound system (Terason t3000™, Burlington, MA, USA) with a 2.5 MHz phased-array transducer with harmonic imaging. The B-mode right parasternal long axis left ventricular outflow views revealed the presence of a VSD in the membranous portion of the intraventricular septum . Its presence was confirmed by transthoracic color Doppler echocardiography in the right parasternal long axis view  and transverse view at the level of the aorta and left atrium . In both the long-axis and short-axis, images of the left ventricular outflow tract, which were obtained when the transducer was placed in the fourth right intercostal space, the largest measured diameter of the VSD was 1.6 cm and the end-diastolic diameter of the aorta was 6.8 cm . Aliasing of the color Doppler image occurred when transthoracic spectral Doppler echocardiography was carried out in the pulsed wave mode, because the rate of left-to-right shunting of blood through the VSD was high. Accordingly, transthoracic spectral Doppler echocardiography was carried out in the continuous-wave mode in order to obtain accurate measurements of the velocity of the jet . The maximal velocity of the flow through the VSD, measured by continuous wave Doppler, was 6.72 m/s, reflecting normal left-and rightsided pressures . The observed abnormalities were accompanied by mild aortic valve regurgitation  and severe tricuspid regurgitation. An estimation of the severity of aortic insufficiency was performed by determining the area of regurgitation using color Doppler. Three jet sizes have been described in literature: a mild-jet extends just beyond the aortic valve and its height is less than 24% of left ventricle outflow tract, the moderate jet of insufficiency extends to mitralvalve tips and the jet width ranges from 25-46% of the left ventricle outflow tract, whereas the severe jet extends deep into the left chamber and the jet width exceeds 47% of the left ventricle outflow tract . The tricuspid regurgitation systolic murmur was covered by a loud VSD murmur. An assessment of the severity of the tricuspid valve incufficiency was performed by determining the area of regurgitation using color Doppler compared to the total area of right atrial size: mild-under 20%, moderate-20-50% and severe over 50%
. The evaluation of cardiac structures was performed using B-and M-mode echocardiography. The results of the M-mode measurements are presented in . The normal echocardiographic measurements are based on the study of the horses weighted 274-469 kg . The images revealed an increase in the left ventricular internal diameter and hypertrophy of the left ventricular free wall. In the short-axis view, four aortic valve cusps: one small cusp, two equal-sized cusps, and one large cusp, were detected . B-mode views revealed normal morphology of the atrioventricular valves and atrial size. Despite the stallion's relatively poor condition, the progressive loss of body mass, the presence of subcutaneous edema and cardiomegaly with VSD and QAV, and normal results of the laboratory examination, the castration was performed under general anaesthesia. Pre-anesthetic sedation was achieved with romifidine (0.06 mg/kg, Sedivet, Boehringer Ingelheim) followed by butorphanol (0.02 mg/kg, Butomidor, Richter Pharma), and both drugs were administered intravenously slowly over several minutes. Anesthesia was induced with a combination of intravenously-administered diazepam (0.1 mg/kg, Relanium, Polfa S.A.), propofol (0.5 mg/kg, Propofol Quadricuspid aortic valve. A: A short-axis image of the left ventricular outflow tract which was obtained by transthoracic echocardiography when the transducer was placed in the third right intercostal space. The mild aortic regurgitation can be seen by color Doppler when the transducer was placed in the third right intercostal space. B: A short-axis image of the left ventricular outflow tract which was obtained by transthoracic echocardiography when the transducer was placed in the fourth right intercostal space. A quadricuspid aortic valve (QAV) with one small cusp (1), two equal-sized cusps (2, 4), and one large (3) cusp (a class D QAV according to the classification of Hurwitz and Roberts can be seen in the center of the echocardiogram.Lipuro, B-Brown), and ketamine (1.5 mg/kg, Vetaketam, Vet-Agro). After endotracheal intubation, anesthesia was maintained for about 80 minutes using isoflurane in oxygen and a constant infusion of ketamine (3 mg/kg/hour for the first 40 minutes and then progressively reduced to 0.75 mg/kg/hour, Vetaketam, Vet-Agro), propofol (0.6 mg/kg/hour, Propofol-Lipuro, B-Brown), and fentanyl (8 μg/kg/hour, Fentanyl WZF, Polfa S.A.) with intermittent positive pressure ventilation. Following an intratesticular injection of lidocaine under anesthesia and an intramuscular injection of procaine benzylopenicillin (6.5 mg/kg, Penicillin L.A., ScanVet) and benzathine benzylopenicillin (4.5 mg/kg, Penicillin L.A., ScanVet), a bilateral castration was performed in dorsal recumbency. The anaesthesia and the recovery from anesthesia were uneventful and the wound healed without complications. Post-operative medications included romifidine (0.01 mg/kg, Sedivet, Boehringer Ingelheim) and butorphanol (0.05 mg/kg, Butomidor, Richter Pharma), which were administered while the horse was in the recovery box. Procaine benzylopenicillin (6.5 mg/kg, Penicillin L.A., ScanVet) and benzathine benzylopenicillin (4.5 mg/kg, Penicillin L.A., ScanVet) were administered intramuscularly q 24 hours for three days after surgery, and flunixin meglumine (1.1 mg/kg, Finadyne Solution, MSD Animal Health) was administered intravenously q 24 hours for five days. The patient required further hospital hoof care because of equine canker and was discharged one month after the surgery. The gelding was euthanasied 17 months after surgery because of a progressive loss of body weight, weakness and recumbency.
