A 79-year-old woman presented after one month of increasing exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. She had a previous thyroid follicular carcinoma and underwent a total thyroidectomy in 2003, with adjuvant radioactive iodine-131 treatment for capsular and vascular invasion. Prior to this, she was diagnosed with primary hyperparathyroidism and underwent a parathyroidectomy in 1973. She had been under surveillance for a monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance, first diagnosed in 2002. She also suffered from hypertension, hyperlipidemia, vitamin D deficiency, nephrolithiasis, and cholelithiasis. There was no history of cardiac disease. She lived independently and was self-caring. She presented to the emergency department in respiratory distress but hemodynamically stable. Cardiovascular examination revealed an elevated jugular venous pressure and dual heart sounds with no added sounds or murmurs. There were bilateral inspiratory crepitations. She was clinically euthyroid. A 12-lead electrocardiogram confirmed sinus tachycardia with incomplete right bundle branch block. A chest radiograph revealed an increased cardiothoracic ratio, bilateral pleural effusions, and prominent interstitial markings consistent with pulmonary edema. Renal function was mildly impaired (creatinine 81 mmolÁL À1 , estimated glomerular filtration rate 59 mLÁmin À1 ), and the total white cell count was elevated at 14.9 (neutrophilia). B-type natriuretic peptide was elevated at 368 ngÁmL À1 (normal <100 ngÁmL À1 ) but cardiac biomarkers were otherwise normal. Her free thyroxine level was 19 pmolÁL À1 and thyroid stimulating hormone was 0.2 mmolÁL À1 , consistent with biochemical hyperthyroidism. Her initial management included diuresis and vasodilator therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and nitrates. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a large wellcircumscribed left atrial mass (3.5 Â 2.0 cm) with a hypoechoic cystic center, arising from the left atrial appendage. The lesion was prolapsing into the mitral valve causing severe functional obstruction with a mean transmitral gradient of 12 mm Hg and associated mild mitral regurgitation ( (a)). Left ventricular size and systolic function were normal. Pulmonary artery systolic pressure was mildly elevated at 41 mm Hg. Transesophageal echocardiography further defined the variegated cystic mass attached to the left atrial appendage and occluding the mitral valve orifice ( (b)). Cancer antigen 125 was elevated at 72 kUÁL À1 (normal <35 kUÁL À1 ) but other tumor markers were normal. The erythrocyte sedimentation rateCorresponding author: Ryan Harvey, Department of Cardiology, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Ipswich Road, Woolloongabba, Queensland 4102, Australia. Email: harvey.ryan85@gmail.com was 90 mmÁh À1 , C-reactive protein was 19 mgÁL À1 , and serum thyroglobulin was <1.0 mgÁL À1. Computed tomography confirmed a lobulated left atrial lesion (50 Â 34 mm) expanding the left auricle, with a soft tissue peripheral component. There was no evidence of malignancy elsewhere. A preoperative staging bone scan did not demonstrate any skeletal metastases. There was no obstructive coronary artery disease on coronary angiography. At surgery, a large lobulated tumor was visualized blocking the mitral valve and filling the left atrial appendage. Initial frozen-section analysis revealed malignant cells with necrotic areas. The tumor was adherent to the left atrial wall, and a debulking procedure was undertaken to relieve the valvular obstruction. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography confirmed resolution of the mitral stenosis with residual mild-to-moderate regurgitation . Microscopic examination identified highly pleomorphic and bizarre tumor cells described as spindle to epithelioid in appearance along withmultinucleated giant cells . Mitotic figures and atypical mitoses were noted. The tumor cells were positive for smooth muscle actin, desmin and cytokeratin MNF116 and negative for CD34, epithelial membrane antigen, cytokeratin AE1/AE3, calretinin, S100 protein, myoD1, myogenin, and thyroid transcription factor 1. The final histologic diagnosis was pleomorphic sarcoma with myoid differentiation. The patient was discharged home after an uneventful postoperative recovery and significant improvement in her symptoms. She was not offered adjuvant radiotherapy or chemotherapy on the basis of incomplete surgical margins and historical prognosis. However, dacarbazine would be considered if she developed further obstructive symptoms. She was readmitted to hospital 3 months later with an episode of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response, and was commenced on sotalol and warfarin. Transthoracic echocardiography showed no valvular obstruction .
