A 59-year old male patient was admitted to our department with complaints of fatigue and mild dyspnoea, NYHA Class II. He had a recent history of acute myocardial infarction for which two bare metal stents were placed; one in the left anterior descending artery and the other one in the circumflex artery. Given the history, a new coronary angiogram was performed, revealing triple-vessel disease. Preoperative transthoracic echocardiography showed an ejection fraction of 40%, severe aortic valve stenosis with a peak gradient of 75 mmHg, a mean of 45 mmHg and an aortic valve area of 0.9 cm 2. Echocardiographic assessment of the ascending aortic showed a diameter of 44 mm. Accordingly, computed tomography (CT) confirmed an aortic root diameter of 44 mm; no other vascular pathologies were observed. The patient underwent a combined procedure of aortic valve replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting. The left internal mammary artery was harvested skeletonized, followed by classical cannulation of the right atrium and the ascending aorta, and a left ventricular vent was placed through the pulmonary vein. While the patient was cooled to mild hypothermia (32°C), the coronary arteries requiring bypass were identified. Manipulation necessary to identify the arteries caused venous return to decrease while the LV distended, mean arterial pressure dropped from 80 to 60 mmHg and cerebral oxygenation decreased significantly from 80 to 70%. The calculated pump flow decreased from 5.8 to <5.0 l/ min. We elevated the surgical table to maximize the height differential, thereby slightly increasing venous return. Several attempts were necessary to reposition the venous cannula to improve venous return to a level at which cerebral oxygenation was stable during manipulation. The initial difficulties with venous return, despite adequate anatomical position of the venous cannula, made a shunt between the aorta and pulmonary artery a plausible diagnosis. With this risk in mind, we separated the pulmonary trunk from the aorta to cross-clamp selectively the aorta and perform an aortotomy to give selective antegrade cardioplegia. After aortotomy, there was a significant back-flow of oxygenated blood into the left ventricle which could not be processed by the left vent. Therefore, two extra vents were placed; one in the pulmonary artery and one directly in the left ventricle. This provided enough drainage to continue the procedure safely.of the pulmonary artery showed highly oxygenated blood, indicating an arterio-venous shunt. Since no abnormalities were described preoperatively, we believed it was better to reduce the cardiopulmonary bypass time than extensively search for an underlying cause. Moreover, it is not so straightforward to find a cause without extensive dissection of the pulmonary artery and ascending aorta, when the exact localization is unknown. Hence, we continued the procedure, first revascularizing the heart (five distal anastomoses) to replace the aortic valve subsequently with a mechanical prosthesis (Sorin, Bi-Carbon 27 mm). During weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass, pulmonary pressure started to rise and drainage of the left ventricular and pulmonary vent diminished together with a desaturation of blood derived from the pulmonary artery. Weaning was uneventful, with a total perfusion duration of 231 min and cross-clamp time of 163 min. No signs of lung oedema were present intraoperatively, nor during postoperative ventilation. Nonetheless, the postoperative chest X-ray revealed congestion of the left lung, possibly due to single-sided high pressure and backflow during initial manipulation of the heart when venous drainage was hampered. Reassessment of the preoperative CT (without contrast) hinted towards a connection between the aorta and the left pulmonary artery, which made PDA a likely diagnosis. To ascertain our findings, postprocedural 2D CT with contrast was performed. Still, PDA could not be established with certainty, nor were any other shunts visualized. A highquality volumetric-rendered 3D reconstruction using Vesalius3D (PSmedtech, Amsterdam, Netherlands) clearly exposed small PDA . Postoperative recovery was uneventful, except for a few episodes of ventricular tachycardia. The patient was successfully treated with Amiodaron (Cordarone, Sanofi-Aventis) and was discharged from the hospital at the 10th postoperative day.
