A 26-year-old lady was operated on at our institution 2 years earlier, and received a bioprosthetic valve (Hancock, Medtronic, size 27 mm) in the mitral position and tricuspid valve annuloplasty for severe mitral stenosis and moderately severe tricuspid regurgitation, secondary to rheumatic heart disease. Transthoracic echocardiography one year after surgery showed a normally functioning and well-seated mitral valve bioprosthesis. The patient remained well until she presented to the emergency department with new-onset class IV dyspnea for 6 h. She denied history of fever, palpitation, syncope or chest pain. Her medications were enteric-coated aspirin, bisoprolol, and a recently started oral contraceptive. She was admitted to the hospital with a clinical picture of acute pulmonary edema. An electrocardiogram demonstrated sinus tachycardia. Holter electrocardiogram analysis revealed no atrial fibrillation. Cardiac biomarkers, white cell count, hemoglobin, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and C-reactive protein were unremarkable. A hypercoagulable workup was negative. She was treated with intravenous diuretics and nitroglycerine, which improved her condition dramatically. Transthoracic echocardiography showed a well-seated mitral valve bioprosthesis with thickened leaflets, diminished cusp opening, and evidence of prosthetic mitral valve obstruction with a mean mitral valve gradient of 21 mm Hg, mitral valve area of 0.8 cm 2 by the pressure half-time method, no paravalvular leak, moderately dilated left atrium (4.8 mm), and no significant tricuspid regurgitation. The pulmonary artery systolic pressure was estimated as 55 mm Hg. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) showed homogeneously thickened prosthetic mitral leaflets with a large echo-dense mass extending into the left atrium and causing prosthetic obstruction,suggestive of a large thrombus adhering to the ventricular aspect of the leaflets, with no significant paravalvular leak . Intravenous unfractionated heparin at a therapeutic dose (partial thromboplastin time, 2-to 3-times the control) was started. Because the patient's clinical condition improved, treatment with thrombolytic therapy or surgery was not considered. In addition to anticoagulation, intravenous antibiotics (ceftriaxone, gentamicin, vancomycin and rifampicin) were started and continued for 6 weeks despite negative blood cultures and lack of a clinical signs of infective endocarditis. Follow-up TEE 2 weeks after presentation showed reduced leaflet thickness with multiple mobile masses attached to the prosthesis as well as the left atrial free wall. The mean mitral gradient decreased from 25 to 13 mm Hg, and the estimated valve area increased from 0.8 to 1.1 cm 2 . The patient had an uneventful hospital course. TEE before hospital discharge revealed dramatically reduced leaflet thickness and no signs of prosthetic obstruction . Aspirin 81 mg and long-term warfarin were initiated. After a therapeutic international normalized ratio was achieved, the patient was discharged home in a stable clinical condition after 7 weeks. She was seen in our outpatient department 2 months after hospital discharge, in good general condition, and advised to avoid oral contraceptives and consider an alternative means of contraception.
