An 87-year-old male with hypertension, renal impairment and multiple laparotomies (gastrectomy and cholecystectomy) presented with New York Heart Association Class III heart failure at our centre. The logistic euroscore and Society of Thoracic Surgeons score was 23.9% and 4.7% respectively. Besides these surgical scores, the patient was very frail, thus TAVI was considered. Transthoracic echocardiogram revealed severe aortic valve stenosis with an aortic valve area of 0.68 cm 2 and mean transthoracic gradient of 76 mmHg with a preserved left ventricular ejection fraction of 70%. His coronary angiogram showed a 60% tubular stenosis of the mid right coronary artery and his iliofemoral angiogram confi rmed a minimal luminal diameter of 7.8 mm. The annulus was measured to be 24 mm on transesophageal echocardiogram. During this study, a complex aortic lesion consisting of severe atherosclerosis, ulceration and localised dissection and aneurysm was detected in the descending aorta . This was confi rmed to be a saccular aneurysm located on the inner curve at the inferolateral aspect of the aorta just distal to the left subclavian artery on computed tomography . These fi ndings were discussed with the vascular surgeon and alternative modes of therapy including open surgery with aortic repair and valve replacement were offered. The risks of combined TAVI and TEVAR were also discussed. The decision for TAVI and TEVAR was subsequently made. The concern was the risk of aortic dissection if TAVI were to be done fi rst as the SAPIEN XT valve (Edwards Lifesciences, Irving, California) would be delivered via a relatively short sheath and exits would be uncovered at the level of the abdominal aorta. Conversely, the risk of having TEVAR fi rst would be stent graft migration due to interaction with the TAVI delivery system. The heart valve team decided to proceed with a femoral cutdown to facilitate the advancement of the 19 Fr Edwards sheath. A JR4 diagnostic catheter was positioned carefully over a J-tipped 0.035 wire and then exchanged for an Amplatz Extra-Stiff Wire (Cook medical Inc, Bloomington, IN). Sequential dilations were performed using the Edwards dilators and the 19 Fr Edwards sheath was then placed in ) was performed with rapid ventricular pacing. The Edwards Novafl ex delivery system (Edwards Lifesciences, Irving, California) was loaded in the usual way and then delivered over the stiff wire. 3 The fl exion of the sheath was performed later than usual (at the take-off of the left subclavian artery) to avoid trauma to the aneurysmal site. The valve was uneventfully deployed under rapid ventricular pacing at a rate of 180 per min in the standard manner. 4 The fi nal result was good with the mean transaortic gradient reduced to 13 mmHg with only trivial paravalvular regurgitation and no endoleak seen. Following this, the Novafl ex sheath was gradually antifl exed across the aortic arch, avoiding the aneurysmal section. While keeping the stiff wire in situ (in the left ventricle), the 19 Fr Edwards sheath was exchanged for a 22 Fr Cook sheath. The wire was intentionally kept in the left ventricle to avoid having to pass the stiff wire again across the Edward SAPIEN XT valve and risk dislodging it. A 34 mm x 150 mm Zenith ® Proform TX2 ® graft was then delivered and deployed over the stiff wire successfully . The sheath was subsequently removed and the access site was closed surgically. The repeat transthoracic echocardiogram showed normal aortic prosthetic function at 6 months with mean gradient of 10 mmHg and aortic valve area of 2.5 cm 2. The patient remained well at 23 months of follow-up and remained in NYHA class I.
