spiratory rate 18 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 100% while she was breathing ambient air. There were scattered focal crackles in the lungs. The heart sounds were normal, with an intermittent soft murmur at the left lower sternal border that was not augmented on inspiration. Inguinal lymphadenopathy was noted, as well as marks on the arms, legs, and femoral regions that were consistent with intravenous drug administration, without evidence of abscesses or infection. Both knees were warm, and there was a small effusion on the medial aspect of the right knee, with mild tenderness, normal range of motion, and no erythema. The spine was tender between the T12 and the L3 vertebrae, without paraspinal discomfort. The remainder of the examination was normal. An electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at a rate of 109 beats per minute and was otherwise normal. Dr. Brian B. Ghoshhajra: Posteroanterior and lateral chest radiographs showed low inspiratory volumes and multiple, bilateral, ill-defined nodular opacities, measuring up to approximately 1 cm in greatest dimension, throughout the right lung and left apex . The cardiomediastinal silhouette was slightly enlarged, but there were no pleural or pericardial effusions. The findings raised concern about possible septic pulmonary embolism. 1 Computed tomography (CT) of the chest was recommended. Dr. Ly: The patient was admitted to this hospital. Multiple attempts at peripheral intravenous access were made, with transient success. Blood specimens were obtained for laboratory analysis. The platelet count and prothrombin-time international normalized ratio were normal, as were levels of sodium, chloride, carbon dioxide, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, urea nitrogen, glucose, total protein, globulin, direct and total bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, and lactic acid and the plasma anion gap. Results of testing for urinary human chorionic gonadotropin were negative; other test results are shown in . Urinalysis revealed clear yellow urine, with a specific gravity of 1.020, a pH of 6.0, trace ketones and albumin, 2+ urobilinogen, and 1+ bilirubin. Three sets of blood cultures were obtained over a 46-minute period from different sites. Dr. Ghoshhajra: Ten hours after the patient's presentation to the emergency department, CT of the chest was performed without the administration of contrast material (because of difficulty obtaining intravenous access). There were multiple thickwalled nodular opacities throughout both lungs, many of which had central cavitation that was suggestive of septic emboli, 2 as well as more confluent consolidative opacities in the dependent right lower lobe. The largest opacity measured 3.7 cm by 2.3 cm and was located in the right upper lobe along the major fissure. There was also bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy .A posteroanterior chest radiograph shows low inspira‑ tory volumes and multiple ill‑defined nodules in the periphery of the lungs (Panel A, arrows). A coronal multiplanar reformatted CT image of the posterior as‑ pect of the lungs confirms several of the ill‑defined pe‑ ripheral nodules (Panel B, arrows); a nodule in the left upper lobe has a central cavity.Dr. Ly: Methadone was administered orally. Twelve hours after the patient's presentation, an intravenous catheter was placed in the right internal jugular vein. Cefepime, vancomycin, normal saline, and potassium chloride were administered intravenously. Diagnostic test results were obtained, and management decisions were made.
a comprehensive care plan that includes medication for the underlying chronic disease, counseling, supportive services, and a plan for longitudinal care after discharge. We should take a similar approach for a patient with a substanceuse disorder. In this case, although it is important to focus on the injection-drug use and to treat the infection, it is also important to manage the primary illness, which is a substance-use disorder.
Dr. Sa r a h Wa k em a n'
(11.5%), addiction (3.7% among persons with a history of substance-use disorder and 0.2% among persons without a history of substance-use disorder), and illicit-drug use (14.5%). 19 Most patients who are taking narcotic pain medications do not abuse them, but patients who are treated with opioids should be monitored to ensure the appropriate use of these agents, and persons with a history of substance-use disorder should be followed very closely. Furthermore, this case highlights three important components of addiction known as " the three C's " : loss of control, continued use, and continued craving. If the three C's are manifested in a patient, there is an increased likelihood that the patient has a substance-use disorder.
that are getting bigger all the time. At this hospital, 29% of persons enrolled in our integrated care-management program for high-risk patients have substance-use disorders. On any given day, approximately 30 to 40 " sitters " are required to sit in patients' rooms to ensure the safety of patients and staff; a substantial number of those patients have substance-use disorders. Furthermore, on any given day, approximately 3 to 5 members of the staff at this hospital are assaulted by patients; some of those patients have substance-use disorders. Such disorders affect not only the patient but also the patient's family and community, as well as the health care system and the cost of health care in this country. As part of the strategic planning process at this hospital, we prioritize areas in which we hope to make the biggest impact on our society over the next 5 to 10 years. Throughout this process, the single idea that has received the most enthusiastic endorsement is to dramatically increase our commitment to and capabilities in caring for patients with substance-use disorders through the implementation of a disease-management program. We recognize that caring for such patients only when they are in the hospital or during outpatient visits is insufficient. Like patients with disorders such as congestive heart failure and diabetes, patients with substance-use disorders benefit from carefully coordinated, continuous care. Through the use of additional personnel, such as an addiction consultation team and recovery coaches who will work with patients once they have been discharged, we hope to make a difference. We do not want to find out that a patient has stopped taking methadone only when that patient arrives in the emergency department with another overdose. We would rather have a recovery coach, for example, stay in continuous contact with the patient and encourage the patient to resume treatment. We hope to make a difference in the lives of patients with substance-use disorder and in the health of the communities that we serve, and we also believe that this is an opportunity to reduce costs. The Patient: The first time I came to this hospital, I had the same experience I'd had every time I'd come to the hospital. I was treated for an infection and sent on my way — to the only local program that would take me. It's the place where I learned how to shoot up in my catheter. It's not the place for an addict who is trying to get clean. But my second hospital admission really helped me. I always say that I am grateful for getting endocarditis the second time because I met Dr. Wakeman. She was different — even though I thought I was hopeless and was going to die as an addict, I could tell right away that she cared. She sat down with me, she was compassionate, and she explained things to me. She explained addiction as a disease, which I didn't really fully believe because I had so much doubt about myself. I thought that I was a bad person. She prescribed buprenorphine and naloxone, which made a huge difference, and she got me involved in a treatment program. Of course, I did relapse after that. But she was very supportive and explained to me that this happens and you have to keep trying. A month or two later, I ended up back in the hospital, and she was right there for me. A lot of people had been involved in my care, and it was very comforting to have the same doctors come to visit me. Every other time I have been in the hospital — and I have been in the hospital many times over my years of using drugs — I haven't remembered who my doctors were and I never saw them again after discharge. To be honest, I never thought I would be standing here, clean for over a year. I thought that I was going to die.
