A 37-year-old Indonesian Chinese gentleman presented to our institution with worsening effort tolerance of 3 months' duration. He was previously admitted to hospital for treatment of congestive cardiac failure. There was no previous history suggestive of infective endocarditis. He was in New York Heart Association class II during the initial consultation. Echocardiography showed thinned cusps of a trileaflet aortic valve. Both the right coronary cusp and noncoronary cusp were moving well, but the left coronary cusp was not coapting well from a dilated aortic annulus (2.9 cm), causing anteriorly directed aortic regurgitation. The sinus of Valsalva was 4.2 cm and the ascending aorta was 4.6 cm. All other valves were morphologically normal. The left ventricle was moderately dilated with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 35%. Aortic valve replacement was advised. While undertaking aortic valve replacement, to our surprise, we discovered moderate adhesions around the ascending aorta with a thickened aortic wall, consistent with aortitis.
The tricuspid aortic leaflets appeared stretched and retracted with no coaptation. There was no structural abnormality of the aortic valve leaflets. We replaced the aortic valve with a 28-mm Medtronic ATS mechanical valve. The final aortic wall histology showed no evidence of cystic medial degeneration. There was no evidence of zonal or laminar necrosis or inflammation within the tunica media. The adventitia showed mild fibrosis in areas with patchy inflammatory infiltration by CD3-positive T-lymphocytes and CD20-positive B-lymphocytes. Some of the blood vessels within the tunica adventitia showed luminal narrowing due to intimal and medial hypertrophy. Fibrinoid necrosis is not seen. A subsequent detailed history and examination postoperatively revealed a history of recurrent oral and genital ulcers for 3 years, which was positive for pathergy. The Venereal Disease Research Laboratory test and herpes simplex virus screening were negative. Complement C3 and C4 levels were within normal limits along with negative screening of common autoantibodies. The postoperative C-reactive protein level was 82.2 mg L À1 and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 130 mm h À1. This led us to the diagnosis to Behc¸etBehc¸et's disease with vascular involvement, which fulfilled thestarted on intravenous hydrocortisone for treatment of Behc¸etBehc¸et's aortitis, and the C-reactive protein level and erythrocyte sedimentation rate reduced to 15.6 mg L À1 and 67 mm h À1 , respectively, after a 5-day course of intravenous hydrocortisone prior to conversion to oral prednisolone, the surgical wound had healed well. Echocardiography before discharge showed a stable valve with mild paravalvular regurgitation. Before discharge, the patient was advised regarding the nature of his diagnosis and the high risk of reoperation.
