A retrospective review of the medical record was performed. As a single case report, this study was exempted from The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Institutional Review Board. The patient was diagnosed prenatally with CCHB, APVS, tricuspid atresia, and VSD. Delivery was planned as an immediate postpartum access to cardiac therapy (IMPACT) procedure, a technique in which the fetus is delivered by cesarean section (C-section) in a cardiac operating room and immediately brought to an adjacent operating room for evaluation, resuscitation, and intervention as needed. The IMPACT procedure was indicated, as absence of heart rate variability prohibited safe labor with vaginal delivery and anticipated postnatal hemodynamic state was uncertain. Close weekly monitoring in the third trimester was undertaken and a drop in heart rate below 55 bpm was noted at 36 weeks gestational age with concern about adequate cardiac output. The IMPACT with C-section was performed, and the patient was immediately taken for placement of temporary pacemaker on DDD (dual, dual, dual) mode. Five pacing leads were placed (two on the right atrium and three on the right ventricle) through a subxiphoid incision. Transthoracic echocardiogram confirmed APVS with tricuspid atresia {S, D, S} (meaning situs solitus of viscera and atria, ventricular D-loop or a right-sided rudimentary right ventricle, and solitus normal great arteries with pulmonary artery from right ventricular remnant and aorta from left ventricle ), two muscular VSDs, severe pulmonary regurgitation, patent ductus arteriosus, and noncompaction of the left ventricular myocardium. Ductal patency was initially maintained withprostaglandin and attempts to discontinue the therapy were unsuccessful due to hypoxemia. Placement of a central shunt (3.5 mm Goretex) with ligation of the patent ductus arteriosus, division of the main pulmonary artery, and atrial septectomy were performed on cardiopulmonary bypass with deep hypothermic circulatory arrest at 28 days old. The atrial septal defect appeared restrictive (4 mm) as documented on preoperative echocardiogram. The pulmonary artery did not have aneurysmal dilation, and absence of the pulmonary valve leaflets was confirmed by direct inspection. At six weeks of life, a permanent epicardial dual chamber pacemaker was placed via left thoracotomy. After several trials of unsuccessful extubation, the patient underwent tracheostomy and was subsequently discharged. Because of worsening cyanosis, cardiac catheterization was performed at four months of age which revealed narrowing of the shunt. This was treated by stent placement. At seven months of age, cardiac catheterization revealed an estimated pulmonary artery pressure (by pulmonary vein wedge) mean ranging from 20 to 24 mm Hg; the indexed pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) was 2.1 to 3.2 Wood units. The central shunt was patent and with adequate pulmonary arteries for cavopulmonary anastomosis. Despite elevated filling pressures, the patient underwent successful bidirectional superior cavopulmonary connection with central shunt takedown. After 23 months, the patient underwent tracheostomy decannulation and cervical tracheal reconstruction. Cardiac catheterization at 2.5 years of age to evaluate for Fontan completion showed pulmonary vein oxygen saturation of 90%, likely due to arteriovenous malformations. The superior vena cava (SVC) pressure was 16 mm Hg, with a decompressing venoveno collateral from the SVC to the paravertebral plexus. Left ventricular function was depressed, and there was evidence of LV myocardial noncompaction. In an attempt to optimize the hemodynamics, therapy with milrinone and sildenafil was initiated. However, SVC pressures remained high (16 mm Hg) and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) was mildly elevated (11 mm Hg). Fontan completion was deemed to have excessive risk and the patient was referred for heart transplantation. Despite milrinone and sildenafil use, subsequent cardiac catheterization showed progressive elevation in the SVC pressures (mean 22 mm Hg) with an LVEDP of 12 mm Hg and an indexed PVR of 3.1 Wood units. An echocardiogram performed at that time revealed dilated and noncompacted LV with mildly to moderately diminished systolic shortening. The ascending aorta was moderately dilated (3.6 cm, z score 2.81). Heart transplantation was performed at three years and nine months of age and included takedown of the bidirectional Glenn shunt with reanastomosis of SVC to right atrium, pulmonary artery reconstruction, and resection of the ascending aortic aneurysm. The explanted heart showed the anatomopathological features of this rare anomaly including hypertrophic and dilated LV, LV posterior wall with diffuse myocyte hypertrophy, subendocardial and patchy interstitial fibrosis, LV anterior wall with mild myocyte hypertrophy, hypoplastic right ventricle, valvar tricuspid atresia, absent pulmonary valve, two muscular VSDs, and endocardial fibroelastosis of right and LVs. At 26 months after transplant, the patient has normal cardiac examination with a biopsy that showed mild acute cellular rejection, Grade 1R. By echocardiography, there is normal biventricular function of the transplanted heart with LV ejection fraction of 63%, normal pulmonary artery pressures, and normal coronary arteries.
