A 46-yr-old Chinese man was referred to our hospital, with dyspnea and orthopnea. Two months before this, he was admitted to another hospital for suffering from high fever (39.2°C). Large doses of penicillin were intravenously given then because of positive blood culture, which showed Viridans Streptococci. He came to our hospital because of shortness of breath and orthopnea, but no fever for 40 days. Transesophageal echocardiography during operation revealed a saccular structure in the anterior leaflet that bulged into the left atrium throughout the cardiac cycle , and also the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve was redundant and prolapsed due to the aneurysm. Severe aortic regurgitation was detected on TEE, which led to the enlargement of left ventricle and mitral annulus. Physical examination found diastolic murmur on the left sternal border and systolic murmur at the apex. Infective endocarditis was suspected, so after admission blood cultures were repeated which were all negative, also medical therapy for heart failure was started and resulted in clinical stabilization rapidly. The patient underwent aortic valve replacement with 23 mm bileaflet mechanical prostheses (St. Jude Medical) and mitral valve plasty with autologous pericardium. At operation, no vegetation was found on the coronary cusp, the aortic valve appeared to be thicken and coarse, but no vegetation. A cystic cavity of 15 mm on the anterior mitral leaflet was clearly visualized from the left atrium and was unbroken ( (A)). The mitral valve leaflet was smooth and no visible evidence of endocarditis was found. Therefore we just resect the MVA at its bottom and the aortic valve as normal. After resection of the MVA, an oval deficit of 6 mm in diameter on the anterior mitral leaflet was visualized ( (B)), which was repaired with autologous pericardium (10 × 10 mm) as usual, and the patch was placed at the left ventricle side of the valve through left atrium ( (C)). The autologous pericardium patch was excised, treated with 0.625% glutaraldehyde solution for 10 minutes, and rinsed with physiologic saline. Also a 30 mm C Type Sorin prosthetic ring wasused for mitral annuloplasty due to the enlargement of the mitral annulus ( (D)). Transesophageal echocardiography during operation showed mild regurgitation. After operation, although cultures of the removed aortic leaf-lets and MVA were negative and further pathology showed no evidence of inflammatory infiltrate, which was due to the administration of enough doses of antibiotics before the operation, vancomycin was still intravenously given to prevent the recurrence of infection (1.0 g q12 h for 2 weeks). The patient recovered uneventfully and was discharged asymptomatic on the tenth postoperative day. 3 months later transthoracic echocardiography still showed a perfect result.
