A 24-year-old slim-built male software engineer presented to us for a pre-employment assessment. He had a history of dyspnea on exertion (New York Heart Association class II). Cardiovascular examination revealed visible pulsations over the left 3rd intercostal space with a normal apical impulse and a systolic thrill in the pulmonary area. On auscultation, the second heart sound revealed a loud pulmonary component with a wide and fixed split, and there was a grade V ejection systolic murmur in the pulmonary area. A clinical diagnosis of atrial septal defect with associated pulmonary stenosis was considered. An electrocardiogram revealed left-axis deviation and incomplete right bundle branch block . A chest radiograph in frontal view was normal. Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography was normal except for MVP of the anterior leaflet with no mitral regurgitation. At this time, we suspected a diagnosis of SBS, thus a lateral chest radiograph was requested. It revealed straightening of the upper thoracic spine with loss of normal kyphosis, and the measurements satisfied ) and DeLeon and colleagues 4
). Thus we confirmed the diagnosis of SBS, reassured the patient, and advised medical follow-up.
The findings in a series of 23 patients reported by DeLeon and colleagues, 4 were vertical electrical axis and RSR' pattern in V 1 which was present in our case also. Radiologic prominence of the pulmonary arteries and levo-displacement of the heart with cardiomegaly have also been described. 4 Ansari 5 reported cardiomegaly in 10% of cases and dilatation of the main pulmonary artery in 4%. Davies and colleagues 2 found that 67% of subjects with SBS had clinical or echocardiographic evidence of MVP. 2 According to Datey and colleagues, 6 MVP is due to anteroposterior flattening of the left ventricle, predisposing to asynchronous motion of the papillary muscles at end-systole, causing leaflet non-coaptation. Differential diagnosis principally includes atrial septal defect, mild pulmonic stenosis, and idiopathic dilatation of the pulmonary artery. 7 In conclusion, straight back syndrome is a benign condition in which the presentation can vary from asymptomatic to a wide range of symptoms associated with a myriad of abnormal cardiac findings. It may be associated with MVP and bicuspid aortic valve in a significant proportion of patients.
