A 33-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with palpitation and lower extremity edema after activity. Six months prior, he started feeling palpitations and more tired than usual after activity. These symptoms became aggravated after he developed a common cold 4 months prior to presentation. He also complained of lower extremity edema and difficulty laying down at night. He was treated with medicines including digoxin and furosemide prior to admission to our ward. The patient underwent TOF repair in our hospital 25 years ago; however, the surgery data were lost and he had no regular follow-up. On admission, the patient's heart rate was 67 beats/min, blood pressure was 119/79 mmHg, and respirations were 12 per minute with oxygen saturations around 99% on room air. Under cardiac auscultation, the cardiac rhythm was regular; a diastolic murmur at the apex was heard. Blood chemistry was normal. Echocardiography showed an acceleration of forward blood flow and regurgitation in the pulmonary valve (moderate-severe) , mitral valve stenosis (severe), and tricuspid regurgitation (mild), while a detailed assessment revealed that the pulmonary valve was short and curly. Electrocardiography showed sinus rhythm and a right bundle branch block. Magnetic resonance imaging showed thickening and opening restriction of the mitral valve  as well as mild regurgitation in the tricuspid and aortic valves. Computed tomography showed an increase in texture within the lungs and an enlarged heart. The patient was scheduled for mitral valve and PVR surgery after diagnosis. During the procedure, we found that the mitral valve was significantly thickened, suggestive of rheumatic heart disease (RHD). The valve leaflets of the pulmonary valve were significantly shrunken and difficult to repair. The patient underwent a mitral valve replacement with a mechanical valve, and a PVR with a bioprosthetic valve. The patient began to take warfarinfrom the first postoperative day. The dosage was adjusted according to the International Normalized Ratio (INR) level, which was maintained at about 2.5. A postoperative X-ray showed that the prostheses were well placed . The pathological changes suggestive of RHD were verified by histopathological examination. The patient recovered well and was discharged. On an outpatient visit 6 months after the operation, the patient was graded New York Heart Association functional class I.
