A male infant with pulmonary atresia and ventricular septal defect underwent right-sided modified BT shunt placement using a 4-mm diameter expanded PTFE vascular graft through a right thoracotomy at the age of 19 days, to treat his increasing cyanosis. At the age of 3 years, he presented with a 1-week history of high fever. On admission, he was febrile, tachycardic, tachypneic, and cyanotic with a peripheral oxygen saturation of 72%. Physical examination did not reveal the cause of his symptoms, and chest radiography did not show pulmonary consolidation. Laboratory examinations showed only elevation of C-reactive protein (5.42 mgÁdL À1 ). Blood culture grew penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumonia. Computed tomography showed a 17-mm diameter pseudoaneurysm at the anastomosis between the right brachiocephalic artery and the graft . The patient was diagnosed with an infected pseudoaneurysm. Intravenous antibiotic therapy with vancomycin and meropenem (to which streptococcal pneumonia is susceptible) was continued for 5 weeks, but the laboratory data did not improve. The pseudoaneurysm and infected graft prosthesis were therefore resected through a median sternotomy under deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass. The pseudoaneurysm and infected graft prosthesis were resected under deep hypothermia and circulatory arrest . The proximal end of the right brachiocephalic artery was repaired with a patch of woven tube graft. Circulation was restored, and the patient was warmed. The pulmonary artery was closed at the site of the distalanastomosis. The stump of the right subclavian artery was anastomosed to the right carotid artery in an end-to-side manner. Pulmonary blood flow was reestablished with an 8-mm diameter expanded PTFE vascular graft between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. Postoperatively, the patient received 4 weeks of intravenous antibiotic therapy with vancomycin and meropenem, and made an uneventful recovery. He was discharged from hospital on the 38th postoperative day with a peripheral oxygen saturation of 92%. At the age of 4 years, he underwent a Rastelli operation for definitive repair and patch closure of the ventricular septal defect, without any complications.
