A 71-year-old male patient, hypertensive, diabetic on oral medications, underwent coronary artery bypass surgery and aortic valve replacement for severe three-vessel disease and moderate aortic stenosis. The valve was a bioprosthetic Edwards Perimount 21 mm valve. The patient improved significantly after the operation, but one and a half months later he was admitted to another hospital with pulmonary edema, after which he was incapacitated with dyspnea on minimal exertion. On transthoracic echocardiography, he had preserved left ventricular function and an aortic prosthetic valve in a stable position, but with severe paravalvular regurgitation. A 2D transesophageal echocardiogram revealed a crescent shaped defect . There was no clinical or laboratory evidence of endocarditis. A coronary angiogram demonstrated patency of the left internal thoracic artery to the left anterior descending artery, and patency of the vein grafts to the diagonal, obtuse marginal and right coronary arteries. An aortogram confirmed the presence of severe aortic regurgitation. Review of the 2D TEE revealed only one paravalvular jet through an oblong defect, on the posterior side of the non-coronary part of the ring. Based on the contour of the color flow at end-diastole, the defect was measured at 5-6 mm at its widest part and 14 mm at its longest . There was a space of at least 8 mm between the valve ring and the aortic sinus wall. We decided to close the defect percutaneously, with simultaneous deployment of two Amplatzer vascular plug II devices (St Jude Medical), 8 mm in diameter . Repeat surgery to repair the defect was an initial option, but with a Society of Thoracic Surgeons mortality score of 4.4%, and a mortality and morbidity score of 26.1%, 9 the cardiothoracic team insisted on a percutaneous approach. The procedure was performed 5 months after the initial operation, with the patient under general anesthesia and the use of 2D TEE. The patient was premedicated with aspirin, clopidogrel and heparin, and antibiotics for endocarditis prophylaxis. The patient was in sinus rhythm with a complete right bundle branch block pattern on the electrocardiogram; a pacemaker wire was positioned in the right ventricle as a precaution. Two Arrow 7F 45 cm sheaths (St Jude Medical) were used for better support and were inserted through the right and left femoral arteries. Two multipurpose (MP) 6F guide catheters with the standard length of 100 cm (Launcher, Medtronic) were positioned through the paravalvular defect into the left ventricle using the child and mother technique, achieving a smooth transition and thus avoiding the edge of the guiding catheter catching on the rims of the defect. A multipurpose 5F angiographic catheter 125 cm in length (Cordis), was inserted into the 6F guide catheter over a 0.035 " polymer-covered nitinol wire (Terumo Medical). We selected the multipurpose angiographic catheter for the posteriorly located defect, but depending on the location of the defect another tip shape could have been selected: e.g. Amplatz left or right. The defect was crossed with the two wires oriented posteriorly in the right anterior oblique projection, but the location of the wires outside the valve ring was verified in cranial views. The angiographic catheters were advanced into the left ventricle and, with the angiographic catheter and wire as support, the guiding catheters were telescoped one by one into the left ventricle, with no need for a stiffer wire support.
