A 73-year old small woman (148 cm 2 , 38 kg) presented with progressive exertional dyspnoea. Chest X-ray showed pulmonary congestion with a cardiothoracic ratio of 63%. Echocardiography revealed severe regurgitation of the aortic, mitral and tricuspid valves with an ejection fraction of 42%, indicating the need for surgical intervention. The patient had a history of oesophageal cancer, which had been treated with chemoradiotherapy followed by oesophagectomy and presternal gastric tube (GT) reconstruction, 6 years prior. She subsequently developed a GT necrosis at the anastomotic site to the cervical oesophagus. She underwent supercharged jejunal interposition between the cervical oesophagus and the GT, which were covered by a rectus abdominal muscle flap (RAMF). Computed tomography confirmed the reconstructed OS, pedicled jejunum (PJ) and GT, run on the sternum ( –C). During the surgery, a skin incision was made at the right border of the RAMF after the sterile draping was applied, with the RAMF and GT being displaced leftwards as much as possible . This draping technique enabled the right-sided skin incision to be made close to the midline of the sternum. The RAMF and GT were partially dissected from the sternum with special care to not injure the GT . An 8-cm lower partial median sternotomy was performed up to the second intercostal space . The pericardium was very thick, probably due to the previous radiotherapy. Adhesion in the pericardial space was minimal. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was initiated with ascending aorta and bicaval cannulation. Following the induction of cardiac arrest, the mitral valve was exposed via a superior transseptal approach. Exposure of the mitral and tricuspid valve was restricted due to the limited opening of the chest. We selected mitral valve replacement, instead of repair, because transoesophageal echocardiography was not applicable to this case. Aortic valve replacement was completed under good surgical field vision. Tricuspid annuloplasty was also performed under a restricted surgical field because the patient had a flat chest. The CPB was terminated uneventfully. The sternum was closed with steel wires, which were covered by bovine pericardium to prevent direct contact to the GT. The operation time, total pump time and aortic cross-clamp time were 498, 241 and 202 min, respectively. The patient had a stable postoperative course without any complications.
