An 81-year-old patient with a history of severe aortic valve stenosis, several episodes of syncope and previous coronary artery bypass grafting was assessed for TAVI. In view of the patient's age and tissue friability, this method would be the most suitable method of treating aortic valve stenosis. The computed tomography (CT) scan revealed acceptable peripheral vessels, including femoral and iliac vessels, to allow insertion of the aortic valve via the right femoral artery. The patient was given general anesthesia, prepped and draped in the normal fashion. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) confirmed evidence of severe aortic valve stenosis, with a peak gradient of 68 mmHg. The left groin was exposed and the left femoral artery was isolated. Simultaneously, over the right groin, using the Seldinger technique, a sheath was placed in the femoral artery and femoral vein prophylactically via a cutdown in case cardiopulmonary bypass was required. The patient was given 5000 units of heparin and the procedure started. During the rapid pacing and balloon aortic valvuloplasty, the patient developed significant hypotension. TEE confirmed severe aortic insufficiency. The patient was fully heparinized and chest compressions were initiated. During this period, the CPB circuit was primed. A 17 Fr Biomedicus cannula (Medtronic of Canada, Brampton, ON, Canada) was inserted in the femoral artery and a 21 Fr Multiport femoral venous cannula was inserted. CPB was initiated and the metabolic abnormality was corrected. Lactates on initiation were corrected from a peak of 6.3 to 1.7 mmol/L when weaning from CPB. While on CPB, the 29 mm CoreValve bioprosthesis (Medtronic Inc. C.V. Luxembourg, S.a.r.l., Medtronic of Canada) was delivered into position across the aortic valve and deployed in the aortic annulus. Upon deployment, the hemodynamic status improved and the patient was weaned from bypass with minimal inotropic support. The pump time was 99 minutes with no cross-clamp. TEE assessed the peak gradient to be under 28 mmHg and a mean gradient of 8 mmHg with trace aortic insufficiency. He was extubated the next day and was subsequently transferred to the ward. Due to bradycardia and evidence of second and third degree heart block, he underwent insertion of a permanent pacemaker. Following this procedure and resolution of his delirium, he was discharged home on postoperative day 12. This was our first case that required chest compressions and initiation of CPB. We established from this case that we should have the CPB circuit primed from now on. An 83-year-old male presented with a previous coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) x 3 in 1993, he had diabetes mellitus, emphysema and severe aortic stenosis with a peak gradient of 100 mmHg. He had a patent left internal thoracic artery (LITA) to the left anterior descending (LAD) artery, patent saphenous vein graft (SVG) to the right coronary artery (RCA), occluded SVG to the obtuse marginal (OM) and a calcified descending aorta and femoral arteries. The patient was an ideal candidate for a transcatheter aortic valve; however, because of the severe peripheral vascular disease, access via the transfemoral or trans-subclavian approach was not suitable. The decision was made for him to undergo implantation of the valve through a direct aortic access. General anesthesia was given and the patient was intubated with a double-lumen endotracheal tube. A pacing wire was inserted through the internal jugular vein for ventricular pacing. The patient was supine and was prepped and draped in the normal fashion. An incision was made over the second intercostal space. The intercostal space was entered and sutures were placed over the pericardium, exposing the ascending aorta. An acceptable location was found on the ascending aorta for the insertion of the sheath. Purse string sutures were placed over that location on the ascending aorta. Simultaneously, over the right groin, using a Seldinger technique, 6-0 Fr sheaths were placed in the right femoral artery and right femoral vein via cut-down. The wires of both were confirmed by TEE and fluoroscopy. The right femoral artery wire was inserted to the noncoronary sinus of the aortic root and contrast was injected to help confirm the position of the implanted valve. During the wire exchange and insertion of the sheath from a 7 Fr to the 18 Fr Cook sheath in the ascending aorta, a tear had been noted. Despite several attempts to repair this with sutures, the tear enlarged, resulting in aortic rupture. The right groin was already prepared for cannulation. A 21 Fr arterial Biomedicus cannula, with the guidance of anesthesia and TEE, was inserted. Emergency CPB was initiated via sucker bypass, initially with flows of 1-2 L/min. The patient was cooled immediately to 23 o C. A redo-sternotomy was performed, the venous cannula was inserted and full flow was established at 27 minutes. The patient required a period of circulatory arrest for 23 minutes to repair the hole in the ascending aorta with a bovine pericardial patch. The patient was then rewarmed and metabolically corrected. Distally, over the ascending aorta, another area was selected to perform the TAVI. A 31-mm CoreValve was advanced, with the guidance of fluoroscopy and TEE, into the aortic annulus while on full CPB. The aortic valve gradient dropped from a peak of 88 to 8 mmHg and a mean of 35 to a mean of 4 mmHg. The patient required 16 units of packed red blood cells (PRBC) on CPB. Lactates were greater than 15 mmol/L and required a long reperfusion to correct the acidosis. During the protamine sulfate administration, the patient became hypotensive, with severe right ventricular failure requiring cannulation of the ascending aorta and right femoral vein. After reperfusion of some time, an intra-aortic balloon pump was inserted and the patient was weaned from CPB with numerous inotropes. The CPB time was 249 minutes and there was no cross-clamp time. A severe coagulopathy developed, requiring transfusion of blood products and the reinfusion of cell-saver blood (10,828 ml). The patient required the administration of Factor VIIa. He was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) in critical condition. He continued to deteriorate in the ICU and, eventually developed renal and hepatic failure. He died on postoperative day (POD) 2.
An 80-year-old female patient with a previous history of aortic valve replacement with a 21-mm Mitroflow valve (Sorin Group Canada Inc., Burnaby, BC) and CABG x1 presented with a history of congestive heart failure. The patient deteriorated, requiring intubation for severe pulmonary edema. On echocardiography, she had evidence of severe prosthetic aortic valve stenosis, with a peak gradient of 78 mmHg and moderate to severe aortic insufficiency. She was assessed by the TAVI team to be a suitable candidate to undergo valve-in-valve transcatheter valve implantation. CT confirmed she had suitable peripheral vessels to allow insertion of the aortic valve via the right femoral artery. The patient was taken to the operating room (OR) on an emergent basis. The patient was given general anesthesia, then was prepped and draped in the normal fashion supine. The left femoral artery and vein were prepared in case of the need for CPB. The right common femoral artery was prepared for TAVI insertion. During testing of the rapid ventricular pacing at 170 bpm, the patient developed significant hypotension. The patient was fully heparinized and the TAVI emergency CPB protocol initiated. The CPB machine was already primed and the lines were brought to the table. The cardiac catheter laboratory team stepped back and assumed their roles according to the protocol. The secondary cardiac surgeon assumed the role for cannulation. A 17 Fr arterial Biomedicus and a 19 Fr. Multiport venous cannula were inserted and CPB was smoothly initiated in a timely manner. The patient's hemodynamics improved immediately. Pump time was 31 minutes during which she received 2 units of PRBC and hemoconcentration of 1100 mls and was metabolically corrected. During this time, a 23-mm CoreValve bioprothesis was delivered into position across the aortic valve through the femoral artery. After reducing the CPB flow, the self-expanding CoreValve was deployed across the 21-mm bioprosthetic aortic valve annulus. Following the deployment, the hemodynamics were stable, with minimal perivalvular leak. The patient was weaned from CPB with minimal inotropes. That evening, she was extubated and was transferred to the ward on POD 2. She was discharged home on POD 12. A 73-year-old gentlemen, with a previous CABG x 3 in 1999, presented with a history of hypertension, cerebral vascular disease, bilateral carotid disease, previous left carotid endarterectomy, peripheral vascular disease and atrial fibrillation. He had a previous pacemaker insertion, poor left ventricular function with an ejection fraction less than 20%, with a shortness of breath on exertion through the year, in keeping with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III symptoms. The mean and peak gradients across the valve were 28 and 46 mmHg, respectively, and increased to 27 and 77 mmHg with a dobutamine stress echocardiogram. There was a patent LITA to the LAD and also a patent SVG to the OM. The vein graft to the RCA was occluded. He was an ideal candidate for undergoing a transcatheter aortic valve implantation through a transapical approach. He underwent general anesthesia with endotracheal intubation. He was prepped in a 10 degree right lateral decubitus fashion. A 5-cm left inframammary incision was made and the chest was entered through the fifth intercostal space. Two Prolene (Ethicon, Johnson & Johnson, Canada) purse-string sutures with pledgets were placed around the left ventricular apex. Simultaneously, we placed a right femoral arterial 6-French sheath and a 5-French pigtail catheter up to the level of the aortic valve. We also placed via cut-down a 6-French sheath into the right common femoral vein, with a wire in case emergency cardiopulmonary bypass was required. The patient was heparinized with 10,000 units, the left ventricular apex was punctured and a J-tipped guide-wire placed across the aortic valve and down the descending thoracic aorta. An uneventful balloon valvuloplasty was performed, with a paced rate of 160 beats per minute. We removed the balloon and loaded a 26-mm Edwards Sapien prosthesis into the level of the aortic annulus. We followed what was thought was the aortic annulus and, subsequently, at rapid pacing of 160 BPM, implanted the valve. After deploying the valve, we noticed that the valve was implanted too deep into the ventricle and it embolized (was free floating) into the ventricle. We quickly re-loaded another valve and deployed the second valve within the aortic annulus, in excellent position. This valve was functioning well with mean and peak gradients of 2 and 5 mmHg across it, with trace aortic insufficiency. The second embolized valve was wire-controlled, floating in the ventricle. The lead cardiac surgeon announced that we would convert to the emergency CPB protocol for TAVI. The patient was hemodynamically stable at this point and the situation was calm and well under control. With a large number of people in the hybrid operating room, everyone was aware of their roles in this emergent situation. The cardiac scrub nurse moved into position and the surgical assistant was ready to take the CPB lines to the table. The catheter laboratory team moved the C-arm and the monitors. The cardiologist moved to the left of the table in case cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was necessary. The cardiac circulating nurse passed up the 15 Fr arterial Biomedicus cannula and the 19 Fr venous Multiport cannula. The surgical assistant moved in to take the CPB lines to the table and divide the lines. The lead cardiac surgeon called for systemic heparin to be given and this was confirmed by the primary perfusionist. The secondary cardiac surgeon cannulated the femoral artery and vein and connected to the CPB circuit of the heart/lung machine. In this very controlled setting, after reaching an activated clotting time (ACT) of 536 sec, CPB was initiated. It was quickly noticed that the arterial line pressures were over 310 mmHg, with alarmingly high line pressures at flows of less than 2 L/min. The patient had significant peripheral vascular disease. We required another area for cannulation to increase the arterial blood flow. The right axillary artery was very heavily calcified, precluding clamping and sewing of an 8-mm Dacron graft (Vascutek, Terumo Co., Inchinnan, Renfrewshire, Scotland, UK). Therefore, we punctured the right axillary artery with a guide-wire and placed a 17 Fr arterial Biomedicus cannula. This was " Y' d " to the femoral arterial line and full CPB was initiated. The patient was then cooled to 28 o C to induce ventricular fibrillation. Large apical purse strings, using felt reinforcement, were used and, once ventricular fibrillation occurred at a temperature of 29 o C, the left ventricle apex was opened. Using a combination of Kocher and Ringer (Teleflex, Pilling, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA) forceps to crush the Sapien valve (Edwards Lifesciences Inc., Mississauga, ON, Canada) and pull it out through the apex was achieved without much difficulty. The pump was turned down to a very low flow for less than 5 minutes. The apex was closed with extra felt sutures and hemostasis was achieved. The patient was then rewarmed to 36.5 o C and weaned from CPB with the assistance of low to moderate doses of inotropic and vasopressor support. The patient received 3 units of packed red blood cells, 50 mEq of sodium bicarbonate, 1 gram of calcium chloride and 1300 micrograms of phenylephrine throughout the 149 minutes of CPB. The patient was transferred to the ICU, stable on modest doses of inotropic support. He had an uncomplicated ICU stay, was extubated on postoperative day (POD) 1 and sent to the ward floor on POD 3. He had no neurological sequelae as a result of the operation. He was discharged home on POD 13.
