A 43-year-old female presented with a right-sided posterior triangle neck lump with an impalpable lower margin to the on call ENT team, having been referred from her general practitioner. The lump, which was normally present, had increased in size over the past 7 days and she also complained of sore throat, rhinorrhoea and fever. The patient had several congenital defects: aortic stenosis, azygos fissure and Goltz syndrome and had a previous metallic aortic valve replacement and pacemaker. The patient was apyrexial and blood tests revealed a white cell count of 10.7 9 10 9 /L (normal 3.5–9.5) with a neutrophilia of 8.74 9 10 9 /L (normal 1.7–6.5) and a C-Reactive Protein of 400 mg/L (normal 0–5). The patient was clinically diagnosed as a neck abscess and commenced on intravenous flucloxacillin, ceftriaxone and metronidazole. A computed tomography (CT) scan demonstrated that a known upper oesophageal diverticulum had considerably expanded, filled with fluid. The trachea and thyroid were both displaced anteriorly with some tracheal narrowing in the anteroposterior direction. The lump settled with treatment with intravenous antibiotics. V. Twigg (&) Á A. Prasai Á L. Durham Department of ENT, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Glossop Road, Sheffield S10 2JF, UK e-mail: vmtwigg@googlemail.com F. Lee Department of Radiology, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Glossop Road, Sheffield S10 2JF, UK She was readmitted on a further two occasions with the same symptoms, the second presentation was treated in the same manner and on the third presentation she also complained of dysphagia, odynophagia and voice change. A CT demonstrated a multiloculated oesophageal duplication system communicating with the oesophagus which was considerably expanded and filled with fluid. The retropharyngeal fluid collection extended from the oropharynx into the superior mediastinum and right thorax, its inferior extent lay level with the aorto-pulmonary window. The mass was causing anterior displacement of the right carotid sheath, lateral displacement of the left carotid sheath, anterior displacement of the superior vena cava but no complication related to this and no tracheal compression . A barium swallow showed widening of the pre vertebral space and narrowing of the cervical oesophagus, but no communication was demonstrated with barium. A drain was inserted with ultrasound guidance of the duplication which provided excellent symptom relief along with treatment with intravenous antibiotics. The drain was removed when further output from the drain ceased. A repeat CT scan  1 week after ultrasound-guided drainage showed excellent drainage of the duplication cyst. The patient was reviewed regularly on an outpatient basis at 1-year post drainage, and had no further infective exacerbations of the oesophageal duplication system. The cardiothoracic surgeons were consulted regarding a definitive surgical treatment for the cyst, however, it was agreed to be high risk given the co-morbidities and the patient was in agreement that appropriate future treatment would be to treat infective exacerbations with intravenous antibiotics and radiologically guided drainage.
