The patient was a girl aged 2 years who had fallen from a height of 1.5 m and her precordium had struck a table. She was taken to a local hospital. Upon arrival, her blood pressure was 80/40 mm Hg and her heart rate was 130 beats Á min À1. No significant findings were apparent on head computed tomography, and chest computed tomography showed only mild bilateral pulmonary contusions. She was admitted to the emergency unit of the same hospital for observation. After admission, ventricular tachycardia occurred frequently, and echocardiography was performed. Moderate mitral regurgitation was found, so she was transported to our hospital the day after the injury, for closer examination and treatment. On arrival at our hospital, she was lucid, and a Levin III/VI holosystolic murmur was audible at the left sternal border. Electrocardiography revealed sinus rhythm, abnormal Q waves in leads II, III, and aVF, and ST-segment elevation. On plain chest radiography, the cardiothoracic ratio was 53%, and pulmonary vessel enhancement was seen. Blood biochemistry tests were performed with a focus on cardiac enzymes, which were found to be elevated: creatinine kinase-MB 102.6 ng Á mL À1 ; cardiac troponin I 27.88 ng Á mL À1 ; brain natriuretic peptide 318.0 pg Á mL À1. Transthoracic echocardiography  revealed partial rupture of the posterior papillary muscle, as if part of the papillary muscle hadseparated from the left ventricular posterior wall, and moderate mitral regurgitation with prolapse of the anterior mitral leaflet. In addition, a communicating hole was seen in the interventricular septum. Based on these findings, the diagnosis was acute mitral regurgitation due to papillary muscle rupture and traumatic ventricular septal defect (VSD) associated with impending left ventricular rupture from blunt trauma. Considering the possibility of cardiac rupture and the reported low survival rate in such cases, 1 emergency surgery was performed on the day the patient was transported to our hospital. After a median sternotomy, cardiopulmonary bypass was established and the heart was arrested by cold cardioplegia. There was no accumulation of bloody cardiac effusion. The left ventricular posterior wall was thinned out to 1 mm, and a 2-cm length longitudinal incision was made there. The base of the posteromedial papillary muscle had partially separated from the left ventricular posterior wall that corresponded with the thinned part of the wall, and this was thought to be the cause of the mitral regurgitation. In addition, a 3 Â 2-mm hole in the ventricular septum, looking like a crush wound surrounded by ruptured muscle, was seen near the left ventricular apex contiguous with the ruptured papillary muscle. The lifted portion of the ruptured papillary muscle was secured to the left ventricular free wall by pledgeted mattress sutures. The traumatic VSD and surrounding ruptured muscle were covered by an equine pericardial patch with pledgeted interrupted sutures. Because the incision was made at the thinned left ventricular wall near the papillary muscle restoration site, direct closure might compromise mitral valve function, so an ovalshaped Hemashield graft patch (15 Â 20 mm) was used to close the ventriculotomy. Withdrawal from extracorporeal circulation proceeded without a problem. On echocardiography 4 days after the operation, a small residual shunt was seen, but mitral regurgitation was trivial. The patient had an uneventful convalescence. However, the residual shunt became worse during the course of outpatient observation, and right heart failure progressed, so cardiac catheterization was performed. Mitral regurgitation was mild, but a residual shunt was seen with a pulmonary-to-systemic blood flow ratio of 1.93 , and reoperation was scheduled in the 10th month after the injury. During the second operation, the previously placed Hemashield patch was incised. A residual 8-mm-diameter defect caused by dehiscence of the equine pericardial patch was seen at the apex portion. The residual defect was closed with a
