A 35-year-old woman was admitted with acute confusion. On arrival she had features of psychosis. She had a medical history of alcohol excess and substance abuse but no intravenous drug use. She denied any high-risk sexual behaviours. Physical examination revealed a grade 2–3 early diastolic murmur with no clinical evidence of cardiac failure. She was normotensive at 137/77 with a heart rate of 72 and oxygen saturations of 98% on room air. She was febrile at 38.5°C on presentation. There was no rash evident on examination. ECG showed lateral ST segment depression and T-wave inversion. A bedside transthoracic echocardiogram demonstrated a dilated left ventricle with severe aortic regurgitation and a normal aortic root. The mid-distal left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery territory showed severe dysfunction. A CT thorax demonstrated no aortic dissection, however, did comment upon a mildly prominent ascending aorta. A diagnosis of endocarditis was postulated. A transoesophageal echocardiogram (TOE) demonstrated grade 3–4 aortic regurgitation with central cusp failure and secondary altered geometry of the aortic valve. This was secondary to generalised thickening and oedema of the aortic root, which was not dilated. No evidence of endocarditis was seen. The TOE confirmed moderate left ventricular dysfunction and mild dilatation, with clear evidence of LAD infarction. A diagnosis of aortitis was made. Three separate sets of blood cultures were taken and were negative. Syphilis serology was positive with Treponema pallidum enzyme immunoassay (EIA) positive, rapid plasma reagin (RPR) 1:256 and Treponema pallidum particle agglutination (TPPA) >1:5120. T. pallidum IgM antibodies were positive. The remainder of her infective and autoimmune screen (including HIV testing) was negative. Cerebrospinal fluid examination for white cell count, protein,The authors are not aware of any other reports of coronary ostial involvement in secondary syphilis. CT, MRI and echocardiography are valid diagnostic imaging methods in aortitis. The specificity of CT scanning for syphilitic aortitis is not defined; early aortitis may not be visualised. 10 In this case, CT findings were subtle and TOE in the hands of a skilled operator was key to the diagnosis. Penicillin is the established first-line antibiotic in the management of syphilis, and in cases of penicillin allergy desensitisation is recommended. 11 The evidence for the use of non-penicillin regimens in cardiovascular syphilis is weak. Steroids are also recommended prior to antibiotics to mitigate the risk of aortic rupture. This was particularly problematic in our case due to the patient's psychosis. This patient's presentation emphasises the importance of considering syphilis in the differential diagnosis outside high-risk populations. Syphilis is renowned for its protean manifestations, and delays in diagnosis are not uncommon. 12 The complexity of this case required a broad multidisciplinary approach to ensure the appropriate management for this patient.
