A 23-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with headache and hypertension. On physical examination, his pulse rate was 88 bpm and blood pressure was 180/100 mmHg in the upper limbs. The radial pulses were palpable, but no pulse was found during palpation of the femoral arteries. Examination of the respiratory and other systems was normal. A grade 2/6 systolic ejection murmur could be heard along the left intercostal area and severe S 1 sounds. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed normal left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction, LV hypertrophy, and grade I LV diastolic dysfunction. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography of the thorax clearly showed complete occlusion of the descending aorta after the subclavian artery and extensive collateral circulation. Aortic angiography via the right femoral and right radial arteries confirmed a total occlusion just behind the left subclavian artery (. , b). We recommended surgery but the patient refused. We decided to perform percutaneous treatment of the totally occluded AoC with a graft stent. A 6F sheath was placed in the right femoral artery and a 6F multipurpose catheter was delivered to the distal part of the coarctation site on the descending aorta. Then, a 6F JR4 guiding catheter was placed into the proximal part of the coarctation site via left radial artery access. Aortic angiography was performed in antegrade and retrograde directions; the coarcted segment was totally occluded (. ). The pressure gradient across the coarctation segment was 110 mmHg. Firstly, we tried cross-occlusion with a 1.5×15-mm overthe-wire balloon (OTW) and a taperedtip hydrophilic-coated guidewire (Fielder XT, Asahi Intec, Japan) through the 6F JR4 guiding catheter antegradely. Nevertheless, we could not pass the coarctation segment with the Fielder XT guidewire and changed the Fielder XT guidewire with a tapered-tip stiff guidewire (Confianza pro 9.0, Asahi Intec). After this change, the Confianza pro 9.0 guidewire was passed through the totally occluded coarctation segment (. ). Following predilation with the OTW balloon (. ), we changed the Confianza pro 9.0 guidewire with a 0.014-in floppy guidewire; later, we extracted the OTW balloon. We further dilated the coarctation segment with a 4.0×20-mm monorail balloon (Invader PTCA, Alvimedica, Istanbul, Turkey) at 16 atm. Then, we retrogradely crossed the coarctation seg
