In 2010, our then 44-year-old female patient was admitted to the hospital because of rapidly progressive decompensated heart failure. She presented in a markedly reduced general health condition with severe dyspnoe (New York Heart Association class IV), pronounced pulmonary congestion, and bilateral leg edema. Medical history revealed pulmonary embolism in October 2009. At the age of 10 she had undergone previous cardiac surgery for correcting postductal aortic isthmus stenosis. Clinical chemistry showed elevated liver enzymes and signs of beginning renal failure. NT-proBNP was 16.000 ng/L (reference level, <170 ng/L). Echocardiography (iE33, Philips Healthcare, Hamburg, Germany) revealed a stenotic bicuspid valve with bulky calcifications (effective orifice area 0.5cm 2 , maximum systolic pressure gradient 81 mm Hg, mean pressure gradient 42 mm Hg), concomitant mild regurgitation, and severe left ventricular dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction 30%). Additionally, moderate tricuspid regurgitation and reduced right ventricular function was detected. Doppler analysis of tricuspid regurgitant velocity spectrum revealed an estimated systolic pulmonary artery pressure of 70 mm Hg. Because operative risk was considered too high (logEuroScore 45%), primarily because of severe reactive pulmonary hypertension and biventricular hemodynamic compromise, TAVR was planned. Because femoral arteries were only 4 mm in diameter and the left subclavian artery was unsuitable after surgical correction of aortic isthmus stenosis, the right subclavian artery was chosen as access site. Although 2 episodes of cardiopulomonary resuscitation with a total duration of 8 minutes were necessary after balloon valvuloplasty, the patient underwent successful TAVR with a CoreValve bioprosthesis (26 mm, Medtronic Inc). After an uneventful postoperative course, the patient was discharged on day 9 postimplant. Echocardiogram obtained at 6 months and 1 year postimplant demonstrated full recovery of left ventricular function (left ventricular ejection fraction 65%) and only a slight increase in mean pressure gradients (18 and 23 mm Hg, respectively) without significant concomitant aortic regurgitation. Echocardiogram at 3 years showed an increased mean pressure gradient of 32 mm Hg and a decline of the effective orifice area to 1.1cm 2. The course of echocardiographic functional parameters is depicted in . After progressive symptom deterioration (dyspnoe New York Heart Association class III), echocardiographic follow-up examination at 4 years, however, revealed a marked increase of transprosthetic aortic peak velocity (4.2 m/s), a rise of maximum and mean pressure gradients to 70 mm Hg and 45 mm Hg, respectively, concomitant moderate valvular insufficiency (see ), and worsened left ventricular function (left ventricular ejection fraction 40%). There was no history of fever. On echocardiography, no vegetation was identified, and there were no signs of thrombus formation. Preoperative multidetector computed tomography (Somatom Flash CT scanner; Siemens Medical Solutions, Forchheim, Germany) revealed regular positioning of the CoreValve prosthesis but was also suggestive of calcified leaflets (see ). In the absence of high surgical risk, she now underwent mechanical AVR. The in situ inspection confirmed correct positioning of the CoreValve prosthesis. The upper portion of the nitinol frame was covered with a translucent neointimal layer. No signs suggestive of endocarditis were present. Surgical extraction of the CoreValve bioprosthesis was successfully performed without damaging the aortic root. The native aortic valve was severely deformed by the TAVR device but still recognizable as a bicuspid, heavily calcified valve. The free edges of the CoreValve leaflets were thickened and
