An 86-year-old male with symptomatic mitral regurgitation (MR) was referred for interventional treatment. Transesophageal echocardiography showed severe MR (grade, 3+ to 4) because of mitral annular dilatation and a severely restricted posterior mitral leaflet in a dilated left ventricle (LV) with ejection fraction 40%. The patient was declined for mitral valve surgery (Society of Thoracic Surgeons score, 31.9%) and for MitraClip treatment because of a too large systolic coaptation gap. An informed consent from the patient and approval from the Danish National Board of Health were obtained for this first-in-human TMVI procedure using the first-generation CardiAQ valve (CardiAQ Valve Technologies, Irvine, CA; ). The procedure was performed under general anesthesia. In the right groin, access was obtained in the femoral vein (2 access sites—the highest for transseptal puncture and the delivery system and the lowest for a steering snare) and in the femoral artery (2 access sites—one for a triloop snare and one for a pigtail for LV angiograms; ). Through the lower venous access, a steering snare was placed around the wire from the higher venous access; this snare was later used to steer the delivery system in the left atrium . After standard transseptal puncture, a HiWire (Cook, Bloomington, IL) was maneuvered through the mitral annulus and LV cavity to the descending aorta. By means of a triloop snare introduced into the femoral artery, this HiWire was then captured to establish an arteriovenous loop. To ensure that the HiWire was not caught in the mitral apparatus, a 14-mm inflated Tyshak balloon (NuMED Inc, Hopkinton, MA) was tracked on the wire from the left atrium to the LV outflow tract and back, the so-called Copenhagen manoeuvre . Once confirmed that the balloon could move freely, the HiWire was exchanged for a custom-made polytetrafluoroethylene-coated nitinol wire within a long 4-Fr catheter. The wire was snared and pulled out of the femoral arterial sheath to reestablish the arteriovenous loop. The venous introducer sheath (30 Fr) was placed after gradual dilation of the highest venous access site, and the steering snare was positioned at the middle of the nose cone of the delivery system . After smoothly advancing the delivery system through the atrial septum, pulling on the steering snare redirected the system toward the mitral valve. Once positioned into the LV , the snare was released from the nose cone and pulled back to the shaft of the delivery system. The landing zone between the mitral plane and the tip of papillary muscles was determined by transesophageal echocardiography and a left ventriculogram. By manipulating the arteriovenous loop and the delivery system, the CardiAQ valve could be positioned perpendicular to the mitral annular plane. A staged deployment allowed exposure of the ventricular anchors and careful positioning to capture the posterior mitral leaflet . Finally, the anterior mitral leaflet was captured by pulling on the arteriovenous loop from the arterial side, before complete release of the TMV device . After angiographic and transesophageal echocardiographic confirmation of a well-positioned and well-functioning prosthesis, the delivery system was retracted and the resultant atrial septal defect was closed by a 16-mm Amplatzer Septal Occluder (St Jude Medical, St Paul, MN).As no previous experience with a TMVI procedure in man existed, extracorporeal circulation support was shortly used during valve deployment (15 minutes) to ensure hemodynamic stability. Considering the smooth valve deployment, this extracorporeal circulation support seemed post hoc not essential. Procedure and fluoroscopic times were 140 and 32 minutes, respectively, and 145 mL of contrast dye was used. The patient made an uneventful recovery the first 24 to 48 hours, and a well-functioning TMV prosthesis was confirmed by echocardiography at 24 and 48 hours after TMVI . However, the patient died 68 hours post procedure because of a systemic inflammatory response syndrome, possibly triggered by the use of the extracorporeal assist device. Importantly, autopsy did not show significant pathology or malfunction of the TMV prosthesis and excluded perforation of adjacent structures.
