A 27-year-old female presented with a three-week history of progressive shortness of breath. Symptoms worsened three days prior to presentation with visible cyanosis. Past medical history was noteworthy for pulmonary valve atresia with intact ventricular septum. She had multiple prior operations including Blalock-Taussig shunt and subsequent right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction with patching early in life. Tricuspid valve replacement for tricuspid regurgitation, ASD closure, and ligation of the Blalock-Taussig shunt was performed at age three years. At age 17 years, she developed symptoms of heart failure due to severe tricuspid prosthesis stenosis and severe pulmonary regurgitation, and tricuspid and pulmonary valves were replaced with a 27-mm CarpentierEdwards valve and 30-mm pulmonary homograft, respectively. Eight years later, she began to develop nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fatigue, presyncope, and ascites and required intermittent paracentesis. An abdominal ultrasound showed evidence of portal hypertension, and features of early cardiac cirrhosis were noted on liver biopsy. Transthoracic echocardiogram showed severe tricuspid prosthesis stenosis and moderate supravalvular pulmonary stenosis. Due to severe symptomatic tricuspid prosthesis stenosis and concerns about the risk of repeat sternotomy, the patient underwent percutaneous 22-mm Melody valve-in-valve replacement of her tricuspid prosthesis and was discharged on aspirin 81 mg. She weighed 68 kg at the time of the procedure. The largest size Melody valve available is 22 mm, with potential expansion of up to 24.06 mm. Despite the smaller size compared to her prior tricuspid valve prosthesis, we elected to proceed with percutaneous valve replacement, given her high risk for repeat surgery. She did extremely well symptomatically for 14 months following this procedure. The patient presented with accelerating symptoms 15 months following Melody valve placement. At the time of admission her examination was notable for cyanosis and tachypnea, with persistent hypoxia unresponsive to oxygen, and saturation levels remained in the mid-80s on 100% oxygen. A diastolic murmur was noted at the lower sternal border. Pulmonary ejection systolic murmur and early diastolic murmurs were also noted. A computerized tomographic examination of the chest was negative for pulmonary embolism. A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) demonstrated severe Melody prosthesis stenosis with a mean gradient of 20 mm Hg and trivial tricuspid regurgitation . There was moderate pulmonary prosthetic stenosis with a mean gradient of 15 mm Hg. The left ventricular ejection fraction was 63%, and the right ventricle was mildly dilated with borderline reduction in systolic function. A transesophageal echocardiogram showed a 13 Â 8 mm mass adherent to one of the Melody valve cusps with associated cusp immobility (Supplemental Videos 1 and 2). There was evidence of right-to-left shunting at atrial level with a small residual ASD. Blood cultures grew Streptococcus agalactiae in one of six bottles, suspicious of contamination. The white blood cell count was normal, with no clinical features to suggest infection. The patient was started on ceftriaxone for possible endocarditis and therapeutic intravenous unfractionated heparin due to presumed prosthetic valve thrombosis. A repeat TTE four days later showed no change in the tricuspid prosthesis gradient. Given the lack of response to heparin, persistent symptoms, and symptomatic hypoxia, the decision was made to proceed with fifth time redo sternotomy for replacement of the tricuspid prosthesis. A 2-mm residual ASD was noted in the cephalad part of the atrial septum, and this was closed. The Melody valve was well seated inside the old bioprosthesis, and the entire bioprosthetic valve complex was extracted. There was no surgical or pathologic evidence of infection. The mass on the valve was consistent with thrombus by gross and pathologic inspection . A 29-mm porcine bioprosthesis was implanted, and post-bypass imaging suggested a low prosthetic valve gradient. The pulmonary outflow tract was surrounded by dense adhesions, and the pulmonary valve was not replaced. The patient was discharged on vitamin K antagonist and aspirin 81 mg for her bioprosthetic tricuspid valve. The patient had dramatic postoperative clinical improvement.
