A 74 year-old Caucasian male was admitted elsewhere due to persistent fever. During his stay he sustained an acute coronary syndrome. A subsequent coronary angiogram revealed a 90% left anterior descending (LAD) stenosis and a 100% right coronary artery (RCA) occlusion. Both were addressed with drug eluted stents and the patient was discharged two days later. Since the fever persisted, he was admitted 4 days later to the General ward of our Hospital. Blood cultures were positive to enterococcus faecalis and the appropriate antibiotic treatment was commenced. Whilst still on diagnostic workup the patient had a transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) which revealed marginal normal dimensions of the left ventricle with a reported ejection fraction ranged between 30–35%. There was no evidence of left ventricular thrombus but there was significant mitral valve regurgitation with vegetations onto the posterior mitral leaflet . Nine days later despite the appropriate medical treatment, the patient's condition deteriorated and he became unstable with need for inotropic support. A second transthoracic echocardiogram revealed a surprising finding. The aforementioned significant mitral valve regurgitation with vegetations was in fact a large pseudo aneurysm of the left ventricle (6.5 × 6.0 cm) with remarkable movement of the involved ruptured apical wall mimicking the movements of the mitral leaflets, and concomitant moderate mitral valve regurgitation. A new transoesophageal echo (TOE) as well as a CT scan confirmed the diagnosis of a left ventricular pseudo aneurysm rather than mitral valve endocarditis. Immediately after, a left ventriculoplasty (Dor procedure) was offered. After median sternotomy the pericardium was opened revealing abundant blood-tinged pericardial fluid and fresh, thick adhesions. After careful dissection of the pseudoaneurysm , cardiopulmonary bypass was initiated through standard aortic and right atrial cannulation. After cardioplegic arrest and left ventricular venting through the right superior pulmonary vein, the pseudoaneurysm of the apex was opened. The aneurysmatic chamber's diameter was estimated to be 6 cm . Necrotic tissue was excised and the defect was closed with a synthetic Dacron patch sutured with interrupted pledgetted mattress sutures (Ti cron 2–0™) . The aortic cross clamp time removed after 40 min and the heart took over * Correspondence: iokoukis@yahoo.gr 1 Cardiac surgery Department, Evangelismos Hospital, Athens, Greece Full list of author information is available at the end of the article the circulation fairly easily with modest inotropic support. Total bypass time was 72 min run. His post-operative course was unremarkable except from transient renal insufficiency treated with sessions of haemofiltration and minor pulmonary atelectasis treated with the appropriate chest physiotherapy. Left ventricular diameter and movement was back to normal limits. Ejection fraction was back up to 55%. His temperature gradually declined and three consequent blood cultures were negative. He was discharged on an ambulatory setting on the 24th postoperative day and remains well in one year follow-up.
