A 74-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with progressive dyspnea. His medical record revealed a prior mitral valve replacement with bioprosthesis for rheumatic mitral stenosis 30 years previously and a stable course without systemic inflammatory evidence thereafter. On physical examination, his blood pressure was 144/66 mmHg and his pulse was 78 bpm and irregular. A blood test showed a high plasma brain natriuretic peptide level of 139 pg/mL. A normal serum C-reactive protein (CRP) level and white blood cell count suggested no systemic inflammation. Chest radiography revealed pulmonary congestion and bilateral pleural effusion compatible with congestive heart failure. Moderate mitral regurgitation due to the failed prosthetic valve was observed on Doppler echocardiography. Right-sided heart catheterization revealed pulmonary hypertension with a mean pressure gradient of 47 mmHg due to a moderate degree of mitral regurgitation caused by the prosthetic valve failure . Fluoroscopic radiography showed a roundshaped radiopaque structure at the LA , which was not apparent 30 years prior, and multidetector CT demonstrated massive calcification around the LA ( , D). Cardiac MRI showed an enlarged LA with a thickened area of an irregular low density in the wall, suggestive of massive endocardial calcification in the LA . There was a layer of positive LGE located adjacently outside of the calcification . This layer also showed a high signal intensity on the T2-weighted MRI image, suggestive of edematous tissue caused by inflammation ( were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, showing marked calcification in the endocardium of the LA . Infiltrating lymphocytes were diffusely scattered in the layer of the LA wall outside the calcification . Immunohistochemistry (IHC) with CD68 (#M0814, 1:1000; Dako, Tokyo, Japan) revealed macrophages also existed in this area . In addition, IHC with tenascin-C antibody (#10337, 1:1000; Immuno-Biological Laboratories, Fujioka, Japan), which is one of the markers of extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and the inflammatory response, was diffusely positive in the intercellular space . An inflammatory lesion observed in the LA wall appeared to coincide with the LGE-positive and T2 high-signal intensity layer on cardiac MRI.
