A 65-year-old man was admitted to our hospital due to congestive heart failure. He had a history of chronic pulmonary thromboembolism. An electrocardiogram showed persistent atrial fibrillation and revealed a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 60 %, severe mitral regurgitation caused by prolapse of the P2 segment, and a systolic tricuspid regurgitation pressure gradient of 38 mmHg. Hypertrophic bronchial arteries were not noted in a preoperative computed tomography (CT) scan . The patient underwent mitral valve repair, tricuspid annuloplasty, and the Maze procedure via right mini-thoracotomy. Venous cannulae were placed from the femoral vein and superior vena cava directly, and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was established with no trouble.target pump index was 2.4 L/min/m 2. The ascending aorta was clamped at the level of the transverse sinus with a flexible clamp, and cold crystalloid cardioplegia was administered. Modified St. Thomas' solution was delivered initially at a dose of 30 mL/kg; the maintenance dose was 10 mL/kg with an interval of 60 min, as we previously reported . However, the right atrium (RA) was fully expanded after aortic cross-clamping (ACC). Following left atriotomy, the surgical field was flooded with excessive blood from the pulmonary veins. We managed to perform left-sided Maze procedure and the mitral valve repair by triangular resection with ring annuloplasty. Subsequently, the RA was opened after snaring the SVC and IVC, and a large amount of arterial blood flowed from the pulmonary artery (PA) through the right ventricle (RV) during the right-sided Maze procedure and tricuspid ring annuloplasty. Cardiac arrest was maintained during aortic cross-clamping. After aortic declamping, electrocardiogram monitoring showed ST elevation in leads II and III; transesophageal echocardiography revealed akinesis of the RV and the inferior wall of the left ventricle. The intraoperative coronary angiogram revealed the slow-flow phenomenon in the right coronary artery with no occlusion. CPB could not be terminated without venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and intraaortic balloon pump. The operative, CPB, and ACC times were 502, 419, and 199 min, respectively. The levels of creatine kinase-MB just after the surgery were 590 IU/L. The patient was weaned from extracorporeal membrane oxygenation on 5th postoperative day and from mechanical ventilation 15 days after surgery. However, right ventricular failure was not improved and the patient died of refractory heart failure 4 months after surgery.
A 65-year-old man was admitted to our hospital complaining of dyspnea on effort. He did not have a particular past history. An echocardiogram showed an LVEF of 65 %, severe mitral regurgitation induced by prolapse of the P2 segment, and moderate aortic regurgitation. He underwent mitral valve repair and concomitant aortic valve replacement via right mini-thoracotomy. Establishment of the CPB was almost the same as in Case 1. The ascending aorta was dissected and clamped at the level of right pulmonary artery; cardioplegic solution was then administered from the aortic root until cardiac arrest. Venous drainage was good while his heart was beating; however, the RA was markedly distended after cardiac arrest and it worsened after snaring the superior and inferior vena cavae. The RA was opened for retrograde cardioplegia under direct vision; a massive amount of arterial blood flowed from the PA through the RV. Based on our experience with Case 1, we took some measures to deal with this situation: lowering the patient's core temperature to 32 °C, decreasing the pump index to 2.0 L/min/m 2 , shortening the interval of administration of crystalloid cardioplegic solution, and placement of a venting tube into the RV. The mitral valve was repaired by triangular resection with ring annuloplasty and the aortic valve was replaced with a bioprosthesis. The operative, CPB, and ACC times were 402, 298, and 204 min, respectively. After the surgery, we noted a dilated intercostal artery making a fistula to the right PA in a preoperative CT scan . Mechanical ventilation was discontinued at 15 h after surgery. His postoperative course was uneventful and he returned to normal activity of daily life within a week.Discussion Hypertrophic aortic branches, such as the bronchial artery and the intercostal artery, are rare. The dilatation of the bronchial artery in Case 1 was secondary to chronic pulmonary thromboembolism, while Case 2 had primary hypertrophy of the intercostal artery making a fistula to the right pulmonary artery. A dilated bronchial artery is occasionally seen in patients with bronchial disease and pulmonary hypertension . Enlargement of the intercostal artery is sometimes detected in patients with congenital heart diseases including aortic coarctation
; however, a hypertrophic intercostal artery with arteriovenous malformation is rare. Hypertrophic aortic branches are sometimes passed over in preoperative findings of clinical imaging if contrast medium is not used. We did not note the enlarged aortic branches in CT scans before surgery and ultimately determined that the dilated aortic branches were a feature that the two cases shared in common. In the present two cases, the RA was expanded with blood after ACC and the surgical field was flooded with excessive blood. This was caused by overflow of the increased pulmonary blood supplied by the enlarged aortic branches. Clinically, poor venous drainage is the most possible cause of RA distension; it sometimes occurs during MICS with peripheral venous cannulation under transesophageal echocardiographic guidance. However, CPB was established with no trouble and venous drainage was good while the heart was beating in the present two cases. Our present cases indicate that increased collateral blood flow into the lung can be a cause of right atrial distension after cardiac arrest. Although this problem can also occur during cardiac surgery through median sternotomy, surgeons can recognize this situation because of the good wide-open surgical field. On the other hand, the surgical field is considerably restricted in MICS surgery, and it is difficult for surgeons to notice this problem. Surgeons who perform MICS should pay attention to the presence of hypertrophic aortic branches in preoperative CT scans, since it is not easy to distinguish between poor venous drainage and increased collateral flow during surgery. In Case 1, perioperative myocardial infarction associated with the right coronary artery occurred. Air embolization due to saline tests during mitral valve plasty would be one of the causes of myocardial damage. However, valvuloplasty was simple, and the saline test was performed only a few times after de-airing of the aortic root in Case 1. Between 2005 and 2014, we performed MICS via a mini-thoracotomy in 546 consecutive patients; we never encountered a case of severe perioperative myocardial infarction. Preoperative contrast-enhanced CT scans were rarely carried out in the early period of our MICS experience; however, we have usually checked the aortic status by CT scan using contrast media before surgery in the last 3 years. Except for these 2 cases, there were no cases of hypertrophic aortic branches among 250 recent cases of MICS. Therefore, we considered that there was some relationship among the dilated aortic branches, right heart distension, and myocardial damage. In the presence of collateral arteries, excessive intracardiac return of blood can cause overdistension of the heart leading to impaired myocardial tone because of ischemia, sarcomere disruption, and subendocardial underperfusion . Furthermore,
The hypertrophic intercostal artery (arrows) originates from the descending aorta making a fistula (arrowheads) to the right pulmonary artery (Case 2) overflow of the increased pulmonary blood might wash out cardioplegic solution. Endothelial cells of the coronary microcirculation of the RV would be disrupted, and this would impair coronary run off, leading to the slow-flow phenomenon . On the other hand, based on our experience with Case 1, we took some measures to deal with this situation in Case 2: lowering of the patient's core temperature, decreasing the pump index, shortening of the interval of administration of cardioplegic solution, and placement of a venting tube into the RV. The patient subsequently did not develop myocardial infarction during surgery and was weaned from CPB easily without any mechanical support. It is important to avoid overdistension of the RV by sufficient venting and to pay more attention to myocardial protection than usual. However, surgeons should not hesitate to convert to sternotomy under poor surgical exposure despite sufficient venting.
