A 36-year-old Japanese man was referred to our hospital with a diagnosis of complete atrioventricular (AV) block. After detailed examinations, a pacemaker was implanted under a diagnosis of idiopathic AV block. Three months after the procedure, he complained of progressive breathlessness and high-grade fever. He denied any history of trauma or chest pain preceding his symptoms. Physical examination did not reveal the stigmata of Behc¸etBehc¸et's disease, Marfan's syndrome, or any other collagen vascular disease. There were no signs of infective endocarditis or pacemaker generator infection. Laboratory investigations showed a raised white blood cell count (9210/mL) and C-reactive protein level (1.6 mg dL À1 ). Blood cultures were negative for pathogens. Echocardiography disclosed severe aortic insufficiency and a cyst-like blind formation in the IVS, approximately 20 Â 10 mm in size, originating just below the orifice of the right coronary artery . We reviewed the previous echocardiography carried out before pacemaker implantation, and found a cystic formation in the IVS, measuring 10 Â 10 mm in diameter, without evidence of aortic insufficiency . Computed tomography confirmed the presence of a large saccular aneurysm in the IVS, changing shape with the cardiac cycle . After an aortotomy, complete detachment of the right coronary annulus from the sinus of Valsalva was seen. The edge of the dehiscence was thickened and the right cusp was extremely shortened. The aneurysm extending into the IVS had a smooth surface and no thrombus within it. No calcification was seen on the aneurysmal sac. There was no evidence of infective endocarditis or perforation of other cardiac chambers, and the other two cusps and sinuses appeared normal. The aneurysmal wall was plicated using a 5/0 polypropylene running suture to obliterate the aneurysmal sac.After closure of the dehiscence with bovine pericardium using 5/0 polypropylene sutures, an 18-mm mechanical valve (ATS Medical, Inc., Annapolis, MN, USA) was implanted successfully. The patient was discharged uneventfully, and postoperative echocardiography showed disappearance of the echo-free space within the IVS. The thickness of the IVS returned to normal, but paradoxical wall motion remained.
