A 58-year old man had undergone Ross operation in our hospital due to severe aortic regurgitation of a bicuspid valve at the age of 35 in 1991. Aortic valve replacement with the autologous pulmonary valve (autograft) was performed, using the aortic root replacement technique with additional support of the autograft with a Vicryl mesh, wrapped around the neoaortic root supporting mainly the sinuses. The native pulmonary valve was replaced with a cryopreserved pulmonary homograft. During the 23 years after the Ross operation, complications occurred twice. The patient was diagnosed with Staphylococcus aureus sepsis and endocarditis 3 years after Ross operation and once again with endocarditis 9 years after Ross operation. Surgical intervention was not required on either of those occasions, and the patient recovered fully. Although regular transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) thereafter showed degeneration of the homograft with stenosis of gradually increasing severity and dilatation of the neoaortic root, the patient was doing clinically well. Progressive dyspnoea (New York Heart Association class II) occurred 23 years after surgery. New-onset atrial flutter was detected on the electrocardiogram, which was successfully converted to sinus rhythm by electrical cardioversion shortly after the diagnosis. TTE showed severe aortic and tricuspid valve regurgitation, pulmonary valve stenosis ( peak gradient: 37 mmHg, mean gradient: 24 mmHg), and a heavily calcified mitral valve with thickened leaflets. The aortic root was dilated with a diameter of 42 mm. The left ventricle was enlarged with signs of moderate hypertrophy (left ventricular end-diastolic diameter: 60 mm). The right ventricle and the left atrium (diameter: 46 mm) were moderately enlarged. Cardiac magnetic resonance tomography confirmed considerable dilatation of all heart cavities, global left ventricular hypokinesis and a left ventricular ejection fraction of 50%. The right ventricular end-diastolic volume was calculated to be 322 ml. Diagnostic coronary catheterization revealed onevessel coronary artery disease, with a 60% stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD). This lesion could be detected only in one plane and the location close to the outlet of the first septal perforator hints at a possible surgical cause by placing a stitch for the proximal homograft anastomosis too close to the LAD. Access to the heart was gained through median resternotomy. After harvesting the left internal thoracic artery (ITA), standard cardiopulmonary bypass with bicaval cannulation was initiated. A combination of antegrade and retrograde Buckberg cardioplegia was used for myocardial protection. Clamping and incision of the aorta was followed by the excision of the cusps of the autograft, which showed calcified deposits and a hole caused by endocarditis in the non-coronary leaflet . A mechanical aortic valve (25 mm, St Jude Medical, Inc.™, MN, USA) was implanted. The homograft in pulmonary position was calcified to such an extent  that during its preparation one scissor blade broke. Finally, the homograft could be removed only together with parts of the aortic wall—more precisely, with half of † Presented at the 'Salzburg Cleveland November 2014, Salzburg,the left coronary sinus and the area down to the insertion site of the autograft leaflets. This defect was repaired thereafter by using a bovine pericardial patch. The homograft was replaced by a cryopreserved pulmonary homograft. The calcified and thickened leaflets of the mitral valve  were resected through direct access via the left atrium and a mechanical mitral valve (25/33, On-X Life Technologies, Inc.™, TX, USA) was inserted. Coronary revascularization was achieved by bypass grafting of the LAD with the ITA. After removing the aortic clamp (cross-clamp time: 250 min), the right atrium was opened and inspection of the tricuspid valve revealed fusion of the anterior and posterior leaflets with additional prolapse of the anterior leaflet and dilatation of the annulus. Owing to these severe structural alterations of the tricuspid valve and the overall complexity of the operation, we refrained from reconstructing the valve and opted for valve replacement. The tricuspid valve was subsequently replaced with a mechanical valve (25/33, On-X Life Technologies, Inc.™, TX, USA). The patient was weaned off cardiopulmonary bypass (total bypass time: 382 min) without any complication. After an operation time of 600 min, he was transferred to the intensive care unit in a haemodynamically stable condition with small doses of inotropes. Owing to insufficient respiration, the patient could not be extubated until the fourth postoperative day. Postoperative atrial fibrillation was converted to sinus rhythm with amiodarone. In preparation for possible problems associated with the resternotomy, the right femoral artery and vein were dissected, and guidewires placed as a precaution at the beginning of the operation. The healing process of this groin wound was complicated by a lymphatic fistula, which required surgical revision. Oral anticoagulation with phenprocoumon with a target International Normalized Ratio of 2.5–3.5 was initiated, and the patient was discharged in good health 21 days after this complex operation. TTE at 3 and 6 months postoperative showed good function of all valves.
wrapping around the autograft was one—futile—approach to avoid this complication. Our overall experience with the Ross procedure shows, however, a very low rate of dilatation, despite the fact that 95% of our patients did not receive a support of the autograft. We are well aware of the broad opposition against the Ross procedure in the wider cardiac community as well as the weak support by the recently realized American Heart Association/ American College of Cardiology guideline . However, we did observe a survival rate of 93% in 15 years, compared with patients with mechanical prosthesis, who had 25% mortality in the same period . This shows a significant survival advantage for patients having undergone the Ross procedure. Before the replacement of all four valves, the patient was informed about the complexity of the redo procedure and the even higher complexity of a possible further surgical intervention in case of biological valve replacement. He agreed to the replacement of the aortic, mitral and tricuspid valve with mechanical valves . However, because of the lack of long-term outcome data concerning mechanical valves as substitutes of the pulmonary valve, implantation of a homograft was preferred. Another treatment option for dysfunctional homografts in pulmonary position is transcatheter pulmonary valve implantation . In this particular instance, the homograft was fused with the autograft and calcified to such an extent that the partial excision of the left coronary aortic sinus was necessary. On top of it, the calcification was circumferential and not amenable to any form of catheter intervention.
