A 5-day-old girl was referred to our institution for surgical intervention. A chest radiograph ( (a)) revealed an abnormal boot-like appearance of the heart, but no parenchymal changes. Echocardiography revealed pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect ( (b)), patent ductus arteriosus, and a right aortic arch. The ductus arteriosus was maintained by continuous lipo-prostaglandin E1 infusion. Preoperative cardiac catheterization revealed sequestration of the right lower lung ( (c)). The supplying artery arose from the descending aorta, just adjacent to the celiac trunk. In the venous phase, blood from this area drained into the right pulmonary veins. Based on these findings, we diagnosed intralobar pulmonary sequestration. Multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT) showed the detailed configuration of the supplying artery ( (a) and
(b)), and revealed an extremely rare anomaly of the innominate vein: retroesophageal innominate vein ( (considerable risk. Therefore, we decided to ligate the supplying arteries surgically, concomitant with the cardiac operation. On the 33rd day after birth (weight, 3.2 kg), cardiac surgery was performed through a median sternotomy. The patient was placed on cardiopulmonary bypass in the standard fashion, using ascending aortic and right atrial cannulation. After division of the ductus arteriosus, the supplying arteries in the right pleural cavity were approached through a right pleurotomy. Ligation of 2 major and 1 minor supplying arteries was carried out without performing a thoracotomy. An expanded polytetrafluoroethylene graft (3.5 mm in diameter) was sewn to the left subclavian artery and the left pulmonary artery. The duration of cardiopulmonary bypass was 111 min. Postoperative MDCT showed obstruction of the supplying arteries above the diaphragm. At 10 months of age, the patient successfully underwent a total correction, which included ventricular septal defect closure, resection of the hypertrophied right ventricular muscle, and right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction using a tanned autologous pericardial patch with an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene monocusp valve. She has had no bouts of pneumonia on follow-up.
