A 57-year old male with diabetes was referred with fatigue and progressive dyspnoea on exertion. He had had rheumatic fever as a child, and in 1993 underwent a 33 mm St. Jude Medical (Little Canada, MN, USA) mechanical MV replacement for endocarditis. He needed a reoperation in 1996 using a 31 mm St. Jude mechanical MV for recurrent endocarditis and perivalvular leak. He began to develop paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) in 2002, and had had two strokes in the past. In 2012, he was thought to have a new perivalvular leak, moderate aortic insufficiency (AI) and a possible LV pseudoaneurysm. These were confirmed with transoesophageal echocardiogram, cardiac computed tomography (CT), cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cardiac catheterization disclosing 2-3+ perivalvular mitral regurgitation , 2-3+ AI and an irregular 28 mm × 28 mm LV pseudoaneurysm in the atrioventricular groove . His preoperative ejection fraction was 55%. At his third operation, via sternotomy, we found a 5 mm circular healed perforation of the aortic valve (AV) non-coronary cusp (NCC) that had no evidence of active infection, and a localized dehiscence of the MV prosthesis near the lateral commissure and base of the A1 segment (near the NCC perforation). After removing the MV prosthesis, the large LV pseudoaneurysm was identified in the region of P3. There was thrombus in the base of the pseudoaneurysm, and the wall at the level of the LV was very fibrotic with scattered calcium. We were able to securely close the pseudoaneurysm with multiple interrupted 3–0 pledgeted polypropylene sutures, and it was oversewn in two layers with a 3–0 polypropylene suture (Supplementary Video S1). A left atrial maze procedure was performed. The MV was replaced with a 29 mm bovine pericardial MV, and the AV was replaced with a 27 mm bovine pericardial AV. He was discharged on the sixth postoperative day. He received a pacemaker 4 months after surgery for sick sinus syndrome. Six months after surgery, he was New York Heart Association functional class I, off anticoagulation and antiarrhythmics, with normal-functioning prosthetic valves and no residual pseudoaneurysm by echocardiogram and no AF per pacemaker interrogation.
