A 50-year-old woman was first admitted to our hospital in 2010, when transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) revealed a mass on the non-coronary cusp for the first time , and electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm. The patient had valvular heart disease that required surgery, which we strongly recommended as the measure to treat the disease as well as to confirm the diagnosis of the mass. However, the patient refused, mainly because of economic reasons. During the five subsequent years, we were unable to contact the patient until she returned in 2015. In 2015, the 55-year-old woman who had a New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class of III was admitted with the diagnosis of RHD presented as exertional shortness of breath (duration, 6 years) accompanied by occasional palpitations and dizziness. The patient denied any chest pain, orthopnea, or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. She denied any history of cardiac tumors, * Correspondence: drguoyq@yahoo.com Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 37 Guoxue Xiang St, Chengdu, Sichuan, China coronary artery disease, pulmonary disease, or cancer, as well as smoking, alcohol consumption, or use of illicit drugs. Physical examination showed blood pressure of 130/65 mmHg, temperature of 36.7 °C, and heart rate of 76 beats/min. Findings of chest radiography were normal, while electrocardiography detected atrial fibrillation. The results of routine blood laboratory investigations were unremarkable. TTE revealed moderate mitral stenosis (mitral valve area, 1.1 cm 2 ), moderate mitral regurgitation, mild tricuspid regurgitation, mild to moderate aortic valve regurgitation, and a round mass (6 × 5 mm) on the aortic side of the non-coronary cusp . She admitted occasionally taking diuretics on her own accord without medical recommendation, but denied taking any anticoagulants during the past five years. The diagnosis of RHD was clear, and the aortic valve mass was considered to be an inflammatory mass, a myxoma, or a fibroelastoma. Through median sternotomy, a cardiopulmonary bypass was established in theconventional manner, and the mitral valve was found to have grossly thickened and calcified leaflets with commissural fusion. The aortic valve was also thickened, and a flower-like mass with multiple papillary fronds (8 × 8 mm) was found on the aortic side of the non-coronary cusp . Because of the rheumatic change and aortic regurgitation, the valve was judged to be unsuitable for repair and was excised along with the tumor. The mitral valve and aortic valve were both replaced with St. Jude bileaflet mechanical valves. The tricuspid valve was repaired; a bipolar radiofrequency ablation procedure was performed to treat the atrial fibrillation. The case's postoperative course progressed smoothly, and TTE demonstrated proper functioning of the prosthesis. Histopathological examination of the resected tumor revealed avascular papillomas with a single layer of endocardial cells covering the papillary surface. The connective tissue of PFE contains mature collagen with irregular elastic fibers that are oriented longitudinally (Figs. 3 and 4). The appearance of the mitral valve and aortic valve was consistent with healed rheumatic valve disease.
