An 80-year old Korean female was referred with dyspnoea on exertion. She was New York Heart Association Class II. She did not have any prior medical history, and was diagnosed with moderate to severe mitral stenosis (valve area: 1.23 cm 2 by 2D, mean diastolic pressure gradient, MDPG = 11.1 mmHg), moderate aortic stenosis (valve area: 1.21 cm 2 by 2D, mean systolic pressure gradient, MSPG = 29.5 mmHg) and grade II tricuspid regurgitation. Preoperative echocardiography showed an enlarged left atrium (volume Index: 72 ml/m 2 ) including thrombus (3.8 cm × 4.2 cm), 46 mm left ventricle end diastolic dimension (LVEDD), and 66% left ventricle ejection fraction. Her electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation, and her body surface area was 1.68 m 2. She underwent thrombectomy following MVR with a 29 mm Hancock II bioprosthesis (Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN, USA), aortic valve replacement with a 21 mm Hancock II bioprosthesis (Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN, USA) and tricuspid annuloplasty with the modified DeVega method. There were severe calcification of the both leaflets, commissures and part of posterial mitral annulus area. Therefore, we resected both leaflets. We did not preserve the subvalvular structures of the posterior leaflet. After the patient was taken off aortic cross clamp, we noticed extensive hematoma surrounding the posterior atrioventricular groove. We applied sutures from the outer surface of the heart, but haemorrhage continued at a different point of epicardium. We decided upon resumption of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). The left atrium was reopened and the mitral bioprosthesis was removed. The posterior atrioventricular junction and the posterior left ventricular (LV) wall were explored thoroughly. We found the site of the small tear just below the anterolateral commissure and laceration at the endocardium of posterior LV wall . The small tear in the endocardium allowed blood to enter the atrioventricular groove. We repaired the site of small tear at the posterior atrioventricular groove with a small piece of bovine pericardial pledget and continuously sutured healthy endocardium with a bovine pericardial patch at the laceration area of LV posterior wall . To avoid further injury to the LV posterior wall, a 25 mm ATS mechanical valve (ATS Medical, Minneapolis, MN, USA) was implanted again. Finally, a large bovine pericardium patch was placed over the outside oozing area of the anterior atrioventricular groove. We used blood cardioplegic solution which was infused every 20 minutes during the operation. The
