A 59-year-old man presented with class III shortness of breath on exertion. An otherwise unremarkable clinical examination found an ejection systolic murmur at the aortic area, radiating to the carotids. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed severe aortic stenosis with preserved left ventricular function. Coronary angiography showed significant 2-vessel disease. Aortic valve replacement with concomitant coronary artery bypass grafting was offered. Our approach was through a median sternotomy with no documented breach of the pleura, no internal thoracic artery harvest, and no persistent thymic tissue. The severely stenosed calcific bicuspid aortic valve was replaced with a 23-mm Carbomedics mechanical valve. Early recovery was unremarkable, and the chest drains were removed on postoperative day 2. On day 4, the patient displayed features of cardiac tamponade, having muffled heart sounds and progressive hypotension. An urgent transthoracic echocardiogram showed a large 2.2-cm circumferential pericardial effusion with tamponade. An emergency operation evacuated 1 L of serosanguineous fluid from the pericardial space, with immediate improvement in the hemodynamic status. A pericardial drain was inserted. On day 8, the drain fluid turned milky, producing approximately 800 mL in 24 h. Biochemistry found chylomicrons and 16.0 mmolÁL À1 of triglycerides in the fluid. Chylopericardium was diagnosed, and a fat-free diet was commenced. This management removed the milky appearance and decreased the drainage. By day 14, the drainage had reduced to 50 mLÁday À1 , and a trial of normal diet was instituted the next day. On day 16, the chest drain was removed after repeat chest radiography and echocardiographyfound no evidence of pericardial effusion. A 6-week postoperative review found no evidence of relapse.
A 45-year-old lady with an extensive history of intravenous drug use was transferred to our care with fever, sepsis, cardiogenic shock, and aortic valve infective endocarditis. Echocardiography suggested severe aortic regurgitation with aortic valve vegetations. An emergency aortic valve replacement proceeded via a median sternotomy. Intraoperatively, we noted unusually persistent active thymic tissue, but no breach of the pleura. A size-21 Mitroflow tissue valve was placed. Microscopy of the vegetations found fungal endocarditis. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit in a satisfactory condition. Her recovery was uneventful. As daily clear serous drainage of 700–800 mLÁday À1 persisted, the drains were left in situ. The draining fluid turned milky-white on day 5. Biochemistry found triglycerides of 22 mmolÁdL À1 , and chylopericardium was diagnosed. A fat-free diet was initiated. The patient's weight decreased from 42 to 38 kg, and we added medium-chain triglycerides and fat-soluble vitamins. On day 7, fat-free protein shakes were commenced, and her weight loss was halted. On Day 14, she was still draining 500 mL of clear fluid daily. We continued management with the addition of octreotide 100 mg 3-times daily. Although octreotide was well-tolerated with no side-effects, the drainage continued with 400 mL draining on day 15. The patient was clinically well and independently mobile, walking frequently to the hospital courtyard. We withdrew the drain by a further 3 cm to reduce possible thymic irritation. By day 17, she was draining 300 mL daily. A lymphangiogram was performed using 99mTc-antimony colloid injected bilaterally into the feet to determine the cause of her leak, but there was no activity seen outside the lymphatic system in the pericardium, even on delayed scans. The drainage eventually reduced to a trickle by day 22, and the patient was discharged. At follow-up with transthoracic echocardiography 6 weeks later, we found no evidence of recurrence.
