A 58-year-old patient with a 3-year history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation underwent circumferential pulmonary vein isolation -LRB- PVI -RRB- in 2012 . After 3 months , he presented with a symptomatic LAMRT with a cycle length of 385 ms -LRB- . Fig . 1 -RRB- . The patient was on amiodarone -LRB- 200 mg daily -RRB- . A PVI-redo was performed using a novel circular mapping and abla-tion catheter -LRB- nMarq , Biosense Webster , Diamond Bar , Calif. , USA -RRB- . This is a ten-electrode steerable lasso-shaped cathe-ter that allows irrigated unipolar and bi-polar radiofrequency -LRB- RF -RRB- ablation -LRB- cool flow of 60 ml/min -RRB- . Each electrode can be switched on and off separately . For PVI , an antral ablation -LRB- outside the PV -RRB- was performed . After single transseptal puncture , a CARTO 3 map of the left atrium was acquired using the nMarq catheter . The activation map revealed an LAMRT with its exit to the left atrium -LRB- LA -RRB- at the roof of the left superior pulmonary vein -LRB- LSPV -RRB- and its entrance at the bottom of the left inferior pulmonary vein -LRB- LIPV ; . Fig . 2 -RRB- By placing the nMarq catheter at the ostium of the LSPV , the activation sequence could be nicely depicted . Pacing from the roof of the LSPV showed perfect entrainment -LRB- PPI +8 ms -RRB- and a similar p-wave morphology compared to the tachy-cardia . Ablation at this site terminated the LAMRT . The exit to the LA was blocked . Conduction into the left pulmonary veins was still present because of the gap at the bottom of the LIPV -LRB- . Fig . 3 -RRB- . After ab-lation at this site , the lateral pulmonary veins were isolated . The septal ablation line showed gaps in the anteriorinferior part , which were successfully closed . At the end of the procedure there was no in-ducible tachycardia . The septal and lateral PVs were isolated . The patient was free of any tachycardia for 6 months . Conclusion The reentrant circuit of this LAMRT could be nicely depicted using the nMarq catheter . Successful ablation at the exit and entrance site could be performed without moving the catheter .