A 44-year-old male with ESRD was in his usual state of health until the day of hospitalization when he became unresponsive and pulseless during hemodialysis . An automated external defibrillator was placed and he received appropriate shock as well as transient CPR . He was brought to our emergency department for further management . His history included hypertension , hepatitis C infection , human immunodeficiency virus infection , anemia , and secondary hyperparathyroidism . On arrival , he was hemodynamically stable and euvolemic on exam . Initial laboratory data revealed an uncorrected calcium of 1.65 mmol/L -LRB- normal 2.12.55 mmol/L -RRB- , ionized calcium of 0.71 mmol/L -LRB- normal 1.12 1.32 mmol/L -RRB- , potassium of 3.2 mmol/L -LRB- normal 3.5 5.1 mmol/L -RRB- , magnesium of 0.61 mmol/L -LRB- normal 0.66 0.95 mmol/L -RRB- , and phosphorus of 0.97 mmol/L -LRB- normal 0.811.45 mmol/L -RRB- . Initial electrocardiogram showed a sinus rhythm with a prolonged QT interval and diffuse T-wave changes -LRB- Fig . 1a -RRB- , but in minutes , he developed torsades de pointes -LRB- Fig . 1b -RRB- and became unresponsive . He was again resuscitated and transferred to the intensive care unit . Treatment of his secondary hyperparathyroidism had been initiated 3 years prior when his intact parathyroid hormone -LRB- iPTH -RRB- level was 117 pmol/L -LRB- normal 24.2 66.1 pmol/L -RRB- and included paricalcitol with hemodialysis and daily cinacalcet . Three weeks prior to admission , his cinacalcet dose was increased from 60 to 90 mg daily due to an iPTH level of 85.6 pmol/L -LRB- calcium was 2.11 mmol / L and phosphorus was 2.26 mmol/L -RRB- . Other home medications included sevelamer carbonate , nifedipine XL , and metoprolol succinate . On admission , cinacalcet was stopped , and magnesium , potassium , and calcium were administered . No other factors capable of inducing hypocalcemia were identified . The diagnosis of torsades de pointes associated with prolonged QT interval in part due to cinacalcet-induced severe hypocalcemia was made . Once his total body calcium was replaced , the QT interval normalized on his electrocardiogram and no further ar-rhythmias were observed . Phosphate binders and vitamin D sterols are the mainstay of management for secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with ESRD . Cinacalcet was recently introduced as an alternative option , working via the calcium sensing receptor by enhancing its sensitivity to extracellular calcium and thereby inhibiting PTH release . Hypocalcemia is a common adverse effect , which can potentially be mitigated by the concurrent use of calcium-based phosphate binders . Symptomatic hypocalcemia induced by cinacalcet is rare , and in the OPTIMA study , only 5 of patients presented with a serum calcium level less than 7.5 mg/dL -LRB- 1.87 mmol/L -RRB- . Torsades de pointes , a polymorphic form of ventricular tachycardia , is seen in patients with prolonged cardiomyocyte repolarization , which is exhibited on electrocardiogram by long QT intervals . Hypocalcemia , hypokalemia , and hypomagnesemia increase risk of torsades de pointes by prolonging repolarization . Hypocalcemia further increases risk by potentiating development of early after depolarizations.Our patients arrhythmia did not resolve until his serum calcium level normalized , and other electrolytes were replaced . To our knowledge , this may be one of the first reported cases of cinacalcet-induced hypocalcemia resulting in torsades de pointes and cardiac arrest . As recommended by the pharmaceutical company , serum calcium and ionized calcium levels should be measured within 1 week after initiation or dose adjustment of cinacalcet . Once a maintenance dose has been established , monthly monitoring of serum calcium is warranted , and the importance of adherence to oral calcium supplementation as needed should be stressed with all patients . Abnormalities in serum potassium and magnesium -LRB- b -RRB- a EKG showing diffuse T wave abnormalities and QT interval prolongation ; b cardiac monitor strips from this patient showing polymorphic ventricular tachycardia consistent with torsades de pointes might potentiate the risk for arrhythmias , and monthly monitoring of electrolytes to ensure normal serum levels of potassium and magnesium is also recommended . Cinacalcet should be used cautiously in patients with known risk factors for hypocalcemia , with a history of QT prolongation , and with concurrent use of other QT prolonging agents . Authors contribution All authors had access to the data and a role in writing the manuscript .