A 58-year-old patient with a 3-year history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation underwent circumferential pulmonary vein isolation ( PVI ) in 2012 . After 3 months , he presented with a symptomatic LAMRT with a cycle length of 385 ms ( . Fig . 1 ) . The patient was on amiodarone ( 200 mg daily ) . A PVI-redo was performed using a novel circular mapping and abla-tion catheter ( nMarq , Biosense Webster , Diamond Bar , Calif. , USA ) . This is a ten-electrode steerable lasso-shaped cathe-ter that allows irrigated unipolar and bi-polar radiofrequency ( RF ) ablation ( cool flow of 60 ml/min ) . Each electrode can be switched on and off separately . For PVI , an antral ablation ( outside the PV ) was performed . After single transseptal puncture , a CARTO 3 map of the left atrium was acquired using the nMarq catheter . The activation map revealed an LAMRT with its exit to the left atrium ( LA ) at the roof of the left superior pulmonary vein ( LSPV ) and its entrance at the bottom of the left inferior pulmonary vein ( LIPV ; . Fig . 2 ) By placing the nMarq catheter at the ostium of the LSPV , the activation sequence could be nicely depicted . Pacing from the roof of the LSPV showed perfect entrainment ( PPI +8 ms ) and a similar p-wave morphology compared to the tachy-cardia . Ablation at this site terminated the LAMRT . The exit to the LA was blocked . Conduction into the left pulmonary veins was still present because of the gap at the bottom of the LIPV ( . Fig . 3 ) . After ab-lation at this site , the lateral pulmonary veins were isolated . The septal ablation line showed gaps in the anteriorinferior part , which were successfully closed . At the end of the procedure there was no in-ducible tachycardia . The septal and lateral PVs were isolated . The patient was free of any tachycardia for 6 months . Conclusion The reentrant circuit of this LAMRT could be nicely depicted using the nMarq catheter . Successful ablation at the exit and entrance site could be performed without moving the catheter .