A 33-year-old male was diagnosed to have type I truncus arteriosus (TA) during infancy. He underwent palliative main PA banding at the age of four months. No following corrective surgery was performed at his family's choice. He had an uneventful childhood. At 26, he presented with Streptococcal Gordonii endocarditis with severe truncal valve regurgitation. This was complicated with septic emboli to his lungs and kidneys. At the same time, he was found to have left sided pulmonary hypertension due to migration of the PA band to the right PA (RPA) on the computed tomography of the chest . He survived from a stormy hospital stay which required intubation and mechanical ventilation, and completed 5 weeks of antibiotics. A decision was made not for surgery at that point of time in view of the high surgical risk and uncertain surgical outcomes at this age . He remained relatively well in New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class I for 3 years, subsequently, his functional class deteriorated to NYHA II. On annual echocardiographic follow up, there was evidence of increase in size and decrease in systolic function of the left ventricle (LV). At 32 years old, he was hospitalized for worsening heart failure. On physical examination, he was thinly built with pectus carinatum, finger clubbing, raised jugular venous pressure and pitting edema over bilateral lower limbs. He had displaced apex beat, first and second heart sounds were present. There were ejection systolic murmur and early diastolic murmur at the left parasternal edge. The oxygen saturation was 90 % on room air. Blood investigation were unremarkable except for elevated hemoglobin of 17.9 g/L and serum creatinine of 105 mmol/L. Electrocardiogram revealed right ventricular (RV) hypertrophy with strain pattern. Chest radiograph showed an enlarged heart with prominent pulmonary trunk. Trans-thoracic echocardiogram showed type I TA . The LV was severely dilated with ejection fraction of 40–45 %. The truncal valve annulus was dilated with severe regurgitation. The RV systolic pressure was 116 mmHg with severe RV hypertrophy. Invasive haemodynamic study revealed progression of pulmonary vascular disease compared to 6 years ago.  However, the RPA was still protected with no significant rise in PA pressure. Calculated left and right pulmonary vascular resistances (PVR) were 10.2 Wu and 2.6 Wu respectively. At the same time, lung perfusion scan showed marked deterioration of perfusion activity to the left lung (4.3 % vs 54 %) compared to 6 years ago ( and b). In view of the worsening symptoms, cardiac size and function, as well as progression in asymmetrical pulmonary vasculature remodeling, decision was made for total correction at the age of 33. Surgery was performed via a standard median sternotomy and pericardiotomy. The establishment of cardiopulmonary bypass included ascending aorta, superior and inferior vena cava cannulation and core cooling to 25 °C. Circulatory arrest was achieved by fibrillating the heart. The bilateral branch PAs were snared at the commencement of cardiopulmonary bypass and aortic cross-clamping was applied. Truncus was transected, and the PA orifice and the coronary arteries were identified. A single dose of direct antegrade cardioplega (custodial) was introduced down the coronary ostium with spontaneous cardiac arrest. Intraoperative findings were consistent with imagings: The truncal valve was tricuspid, the leaflet was damaged beyond repair by the endocarditis. The truncus root was very dilated and overriding into the RV (>50 %). The left coronary artery (LCA) orifice originated at a higher level than the right coronary artery (RCA) and had a short intramural course, arising from the posterior facing Computed tomography of the chest. The heart size is enlarged. On the 3-dimensional volume rendered image (a), there is a common trunk of the ascending aorta and main pulmonary artery (PA). The aortic arch is right-sided and the pulmonary arteries are grossly dilated. On the coronal view (b), the tight narrowing at the beginning of right PA (white arrow) is where the migrated PA band from main PA locates. T: truncus; MPA: main pulmonary artery; LPA: left pulmonary artery; RPA: right pulmonary artery; AO: aorta sinus. RCA arised from the anterior facing sinus. No abnormal course of the LCA. The coronary buttons were cut out. Left ventricular outflow tract was established by a valve conduit (size 31 mm, Metronic, Inc, Minneapolis, MN) and the coronary buttons were anastomosed. The ventricular septal defect (VSD) was closed with Dacron patch. The RV to PA continuity was established by aortic homograft conduit (size 25 mm). As the stenosis of RPA from previous PA band was at the orifice of the RPA, this was dealt with during the suturing of the RV-PA conduit. Autologous pericardial " hood " was used to augment RV outflow tract to homograft anastomosis proximally. The distal end of the homograft was cut at an angle and then incised to enlarge the anastomotic suture line. Prior to completion, a trans-esophageal echo was performed to detail the VSD closure, bileaflet prosthesis function, and patency of PV-PA conduit with minimal regurgitation. Challenges associated with operation: 1) Bleeding. Patient developed massive bleeding originating from the Bental anastomosis, required going back on-pump and reinforcing the suture line towards the end of the surgery. Chest was kept open for 48 h with the support of intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) until day 4 post operation. 2) Arrhythmias. After removal of IABP, the patient developed atrial fibrillation and was started on intravenous amiodarone. He then developed ventricular standstill and emergency arterio-venous Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) had to be inserted. He made good recovery after ECMO was explanted on day 7 post operation. Patient was followed up after discharge and remained in NYHA II. At 21 months after the primary procedure, lung perfusion scan suggested improvement of the left lung perfusion activity from 4.3 to 20.2 % .
