syndrome was proposed and the recommendation for continuation of the initiated physical therapy was given. In the following 5.5 years, the boy had 8 hospitalizations at the Physical Therapy Department for lymphatic massage therapy. However, the growth of the lesion was extremely progressive so that the right thigh of the child reached double the size of his left thigh (Figs 2A and 3A). Furthermore, MRI revealed the presence of a diffuse vascular malformation at the thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic cavities with infiltration of bony structures, which was originally reported as a " tumorous " process (
At the age of 6 years and 3 months, a further enlargement of the right lower extremity was noticed. This was associated with an episode of painful thrombophlebitis in the right lumbal region where large varicose veins were localized.
In the following 7 months, there were 9 hospitalizations. Subcutaneous treatment with interferon alfa 2b in doses of 3 million IU/m 2 of body surface area 3 times a week was initiated with antiangiogenic intent. Hospitalizations were needed for blood transfusions due to persistent anemia, and the follow-up examinations. MRI performed 11 months after initiation of interferon treatment showed further enlargement of the lesion. Vincristine, actinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (VAC) CWS-96 protocol for soft tissue tumors was introduced as the next treatment option along with interferon. There were 8 cycles of VAC. After 6 months of treatment, MRI revealed a minimal regression of the lesion at the thoracic region. Interferon was discontinued after 17 months of treatment at the age of 8 years and 2 months. There were additional 15 hospitalizations in the following 18 months, mainly due to blood transfusions and the follow-up evaluations. In addition, because of preputial enlargement caused by the growth of the CLVM, a circumcision was performed. The child was 9 years and 7 months of age when propranolol was introduced as a single therapy in a dosage of 4 mg/kg body weight per day, with the intention to prevent further growth of the lesion. Because MRI did not show any relevant regression of thoracic and abdominal masses after nearly 3 months of treatment, this therapy was also ceased. The interdisciplinary team consisting of pediatric hemato-oncologists, pediatric physical therapist, vascular surgeons, and plastic surgeons concluded that after 44 hospitalizations there were no more treatment options for this child. It was June 2012. At the age of 10 years and 4 months the child was in a wheelchair with hip and knee flexion contractures, scoliosis, asymmetry of lower extremities, and he could not walk (Figs 2B and 3B). At this point, after repeated literature search and personal communications with experts, we decided to offer to our patient the treatment with sirolimus on the basis of compassionate use. Informed consent was obtained from both parents and the patient, and properly documented. Our institutional review board approved the review of patient's medical record. According to the instructions given, a starting per-oral dose of 0.1 mg/kg per 24 hours twice daily was begun with the aim of reaching the therapeutic range of 5 to 15 ng/mL, which has been previously reported in the literature. 4 After treatment initiation, the morning blood level of sirolimus was 8.15 ng/mL. We
