A young lady of 34 years of age, a working professional, presented with vague headaches of a few months duration. She had no history of seizures. She was of normal average intelligence though no formal psychometry was done. Neurological examination was normal. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain to look for cause for headache showed evidence of colpocephaly. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed complex developmental anomalies. They included colpocephaly in the form of dilated posterior parts of the lateral ventricles including the occipital horns and the trigones (Figures 1 and 2). The corpus callosum was deformed, stretched and bowed superiorly due to the highly placed third ventricle. The rostrum, genu, body, isthmus and the splenium of the corpus callosum were identified. The posterior part of the body and the splenium were thinner as compared to the genu and the rostrum . The basal ganglia including the caudate nuclei, globus pallidi and the putamina were located abnormally low. The heads of the caudate nuclei were close to each other and abutted into the floor of the frontal horns of the lateral and the third ventricles. The mamillary bodies were seen with a band of tissue extending from them towards the posterior parts of the corpus callosum in the floor of the enlarged third ventricle Radiology, Khoula Hospital, Mina Al Fahal Corresponding author: Peruvumba N Jayakumar, Neuroradiology and Interventional Neuroradiology, Radiology, Khoula Hospital, Mina Al Fahal, Muscat, 116, Oman.which probably represents the abnormally located fornices ( , 2 and 3). The septum pellucidum was rudimentary (Figures 1 and 2). The thalami were not fused and normal. The hippocampii were normal in morphology and orientation. The cingulate gyri were normal (Figures 1 and 2). The brainstem showed multiple abnormalities. The midbrain was horizontal in orientation. The brain stem was elongated and showed a large posterior convexity with an enlarged cystic dilatation of the anterior mesencephalic cistern (Figures 1 and 3). The tectum was normal. The pons showed abnormal morphology, it was elongated dorsoventrally with a large deep ventral sulcus . The cistern magna was large with a cystic dilatation on the right side with mild hypoplasia of the right cerebellar hemisphere . Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the brain showed interesting findings. These include the complete absence of the circle of Willis (COW) with the anterior communicating artery (AComA) and the posterior communicating arteries (PComAs) being absent . There was evidence of pollarding of the major trunks of the middle and anterior cerebral arteries . The internal carotid arteries (ICAs) and the vertebro-basilar arterial (VBA) system were normal. The anterior cerebral artery (ACA) on the right side and the middle cerebral artery (MCA) on both sideswas replaced by multiple arterial branches supplying the cerebral hemispheres (pollarding) . The left ACA was absent. The primitive anterior choroidal artery (pAChoA) was seen as the largest branch coursing over the hemisphere . The basilar artery supplied the posterior fossa and probably parts of the occipital lobes and the thalami . Susceptibility Weighted Imaging (SWI) showed normal superficial and deep venous systems . Due to ethical considerations, we did not subject our patient to an invasive digital subtraction angiogram.
