We report the case of a male infant who began to develop multiple hemangiomas at 7 months of age.
According to the personal history, gestation took place in Morocco and was uncontrolled. The mother arrived in Spain at the time of birth, which was preterm by caesarean delivery at 35 weeks' estimated gestational age. At birth, the infant presented hydrops fetalis, respiratory distress, and pleural and pneumothorax effusion that required prolonged mechanical ventilation. Multiple complications arose, and bronchopulmonary dysplasia developed. There was also a congenital intrahepatic portosystemic shunt and an asymmetric hypertrophic cardiomyopathy associated with mild aortic regurgitation. Treatment of the heart disease began in the second week of life with propranolol (dose of 5 mg/kg/day). The patient was discharged from hospital at 4 months of life. Despite treatment with inhaled budesonide and home oxygen therapy, the infant presented frequent respiratory exacerbations that required hospitalization, on one occasion in the PICU. During the latter admission, when the infant was 1 month of age, propranolol treatment was withdrawn. One week later, there began to appear multiple skin lesions (.20), corresponding to multifocal infantile hemangiomas affecting the face, trunk, and limbs ( , with rapid growth but no associated liver involvement, according to serial ultrasound examination. In view of the facial involvement and taking into account the previous use of propranolol for several months, it was decided to resume the application of propranolol (although at lower doses) at 9 months of age at an initial dose of 1 mg/kg/day, which was increased to 2 mg/kg/day 2 weeks later. The response to this treatment was good, with many of the lesions disappearing completely and the rest decreasing in intensity and volume ( . The patient tolerated the treatment well, and there were no respiratory exacerbations. The treatment was continued until the patient was 16 months of age. After the withdrawal of propranolol, some lesions reappeared, although in a less intense form (with a lower volume). A wait-and-see approach was then taken.
