A 41-year-old woman presented to the emergency department following a domestic incident. Physical examination performed after her entering the emergency department showed no signs of bruising or swelling of the soft tissues on the scalp. Neurological examination was unremarkable except for mild asthaenia and widespread headache. Her medical history revealed multiple sclerosis, diagnosed in 2003. After the preliminary clinical evaluation, the patient underwent CT brain exam that revealed, in the right posterior periventricular white matter, a circumscribed hyperdense area of 10 mm ( (a) and (b)). The lesion showed medium attenuation density values (40–50 HU) more likely compatible with post-contusive haemorrhagic lesion or vascular lesion like capillary telangiectasias with mild bleeding; however, the calcified nature of the same could not be ruled out. In fact dystrophic intracranial calcifications are also seen in the watershed areas away from the lesion due to ischaemic brain tissue and therefore the diagnosis of cavernous angioma showing perilesional low–medium calcific hyperdensity was not excluded. 5 Her medical history excluded in utero infections caused by TORCH agents including toxoplasmosis, rubella, cytomegalovirus (CMV) and herpes simplex virus (HSV) producing a necrotizing ependymitis with calcifications deposited just beneath the ependyma of the lateral ventricles. 5 The extraventricular extension of hyperdense lesion associated with a intralesional value of 40–50HU excluded the atypical pattern of choroid plexus calcification 5 and intraventricular calcified ependymomas. 5 We excluded protean neurofibromatosis syndrome 5 and expansive neoplastic lesions such as calcified oligodendrogliomas 5 since the lesion showed no mass effect and no calcifications in a nodular and clumped pattern. Diagnosis of dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumours (DNETs), 5 which also show a similar clumped pattern of calcifications, was also ruled out. We required in addition a brain MRI examination to be performed one week later in our department. The preliminary assessment of the patient's medical history revealed a relapsing–remitting form of multiple sclerosis. After the diagnosis in 2003 the patient was treated with interferon until 2011; since then and until 2012, she had stopped therapy for a gestational state. Thereafter, until the year 2014, the patient being in remitting phase, she was treated with corticosteroidal agents for a thermal dysaesthesia of the right lower limb. Currently she is not in therapy and is completely asymptomatic. The retrospective evaluation of MRI images performed in February 2005 and also subsequent MRI follow-ups, not carried out in our department, revealed, on T2-fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images, multiple hyperintense focal demyelinating lesions ( (a)). MRI examination performed in 2005 showed, after contrast administration, a single enhanced nodular lesion in the right parietal subcortical region. This enhanced area was interpreted as increased blood–brain barrier permeability, a feature of acute demyelinating lesion ( (d)). Moreover,another area of subtle contrast enhancement ( (b) and (c)) was reported as acute plaque in the same anatomic region of the hyperdense lesion highlighted in CT examination performed in our department . In several MRI examinations performed once a year since 2005, we observed a variable radiological pattern of the disease with a different number of enhancing and not enhancing lesions according with the relapsing–remitting course of this form of multiple sclerosis (
( (i)). However, the lesion measuring 10 mm in the white matter adjacent to the occipital horn of the right ventricle resulted stable in size and enhancement pattern in every examination ( (g)). One week after performing CT, the patient underwent a brain MRI scan after informed consent on a 3T (GE Healthcare Technologies , Milwaukee, Wisconsin) with an eight-channel phased array receive coil todetermine the nature of the lesion using SWI sequence in addition to the standard MRI protocol. The exam included standard pre and post-contrast T1weighted spoiled gradient echo (SPGR) images, axial diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), FLAIR, coronal T2 weighted images and finally SWI imaging with a slab of 64 slices of 3 mm thickness, no gap, a field of view (FOV) of 220 mm, an acquisition matrix of 384 A ˚ 256, a TR/TE of 85.2/32.6 ms, NEX 2 and a flip angle of 20. The MRI examination lasted about 35 min. The examination showed, in T1-weighted SPGR images, mild post-contrast enhancement of the known lesion adjacent to the occipital horn of the right ventricle ( (a)). However, axial DWI (b1000) ( (b)) sequence did not show a bright hyperintense signal of the lesion, so the hypothesis of active demyelinating plaque was ruled out. SWI axial imaging ( (c)) showed the lesion was inhomogeneously hypointense, with a radial shape and closely adjacent to some vascular low-flow elements. In sagittal post-processing SWI imaging ( (d)), the lesion lacked the typical hyperintensity of calcified lesions and dark signal of microbleeds. In fact, as just reported by other authors, 6 the evaluation of the corrected phase images allows the differentiation between the two substances, as calcifications appear bright because of a positive phase shift and haemorrhages appear dark because of a negative phase shift. For these reasons we diagnosed the abnormal vascular venous nature of the lesion confirmed by CT brain follow-up one month later that revealed the stability of the same. We did not consider it appropriate to perform an angiography exam to confirm the diagnosis because the lesion resulted stable in size since 2005 and MR exam can differentiate abnormal vascular venous malformation from other causes with excellent specificity (98%) and reasonable sensitivity (62%). 7
