A 29-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with high-grade fever, chills, diarrhoea and altered mental status secondary to Salmonella enteritis (SE). He had a significant past medical history of mental retardation, chronic anaemia, cardiomyopathy and compensated cryptogenic liver disease. At admission, his temperature was 38.6 o C, heart rate was 142 beats per min, blood pressure was 132/65 mmHg, and peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO 2 ) was 100% on 2 L oxygen. The patient also appeared toxic, dehydrated and drowsy. His abdomen was soft and non-tender, and his liver and spleen were not palpable. Laboratory test results were as follows: haemoglobin 9Urine and blood cultures were negative. Upper gastrointestinal (UGI) endoscopy revealed nonspecific gastritis and a small Mallory-Weiss tear at the gastro-oesophageal junction. No oesophageal or gastric varices were noted. Colonoscopy showed patchy areas of inflammation, confirmed to be nonspecific on biopsy. The patient was started on intravenous (IV) ceftriaxone antibiotic therapy. On Day 4 of hospitalisation, the patient developed massive rectal bleeding. His haemoglobin level dropped from 9.1 gm/dL to 6.7 gm/dL and was accompanied by hypotension. Proctoscopy revealed a large volume of fresh blood and blood clots. In view of the massive lower gastrointestinal bleeding and the unremarkable UGI endoscopy, urgent computed tomography (CT) angiography was performed. In the arterial phase, early, intense enhancement of the splenic and portal veins was observed, and in the venous phase, multiple portosystemic collateral vessels in the gastric and splenorenal regions were seen . The findings were highly suggestive of SAVF and gastric varices. The liver was noted to be cirrhotic, and no splenic artery aneurysm, splenic enlargement or ascites was detected. Selective coeliac and superior mesenteric catheter angiography was subsequently done, which confirmed an arteriovenous fistula (AVF) in the mid pole of the spleen, causing an early, rapid opacification of the splenic and portal veins . Retrograde flow within the posterior and left gastric veins was noted, opacifying the portosystemic collaterals in the gastric region . The splenic artery was of normal calibre, with no evidence of any splenic artery aneurysm. A 5-F angiographic catheter (Radifocus; Terumo Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) was advanced into the mid-splenic artery. Through this catheter, a 2.7-F microcatheter system (Progreat; Terumo Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) was manoeuvred into the segmental splenic branch supplying the SAVF . The segmental branch was embolised with a combination of 3-mm and 2-mm embolisation coils (VortX, Diamond-18 and 8 Pushable Coils; Boston Scientific, Cork, Ireland) deployed distally, and 4-mm embolisation coils (MicroNester; Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN, USA) deployed proximally. Complete occlusion of the segmental artery wasABSTRACT Splenic arteriovenous fistula (SAVF) is an unusual cause of portal hypertension, and is rarely associated with an infective aetiology. It is often difficult to identify SAVF clinically, and thus, radiological modalities are invariably required for diagnosis and treatment. We herein describe a case of SAVF occurring in a patient with compensated cirrhosis as a sequel to salmonella gastroenteritis, and presenting with acute gastric variceal bleeding. Selective transcatheter embolisation of the splenic artery was effective in controlling bleeding.achieved, with no subsequent filling of the SAVF , and the rest of the segmental splenic arteries remained patent. Immediately following embolisation, repeat UGI endoscopy performed to confirm the gastric varices revealed a large blood clot in the fundus, with an underlying large, type I isolated gastric varix that was not seen in the endoscopy four days earlier. The patient had an uneventful recovery, with no further episodes of GI bleeding. He was discharged from hospital after 12 days on IV ceftriaxone and oral metronidazole, and was advised to undergo follow-up UGI endoscopy and wedged hepatic venous pressure tests. However, the patient's family declined any further evaluation. Nevertheless, he was well and symptom free at the six-month follow-up.
