A 45-year-old Chinese man presented to our emergency department (ED) with a two-day history of exertional shortness of breath, left-sided chest pain and abdominal bloating. He was a smoker and had a medical history of hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, and inferior and RV ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) ten years ago status post-percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to the distal right coronary artery (RCA). Coronary angiography done three years after PCI showed a patent distal RCA stent. He subsequently defaulted his medications. On arrival to our ED, his vital signs were as follows: blood pressure (BP) 88/59 mmHg; respiratory rate 22 breaths per min; and oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry 90% on nonrebreather mask. There were decreased breath sounds bibasally with occasional basal crepitations. The jugular venous pressure was not elevated, and the rest of the physical examination was unremarkable. Electrocardiography (ECG) showed evolved inferior STEMI ( , which was different from his previous ECG . Arterial blood gas revealed type I respiratory failure with partial oxygen pressure (PaO 2 ) of 50 mmHg on room air. Laboratory findings showed elevated cardiac enzymes: creatine kinase 1029 (normal range 30–350) U/L, creatine kinase-MB 28.4 (NR 1.0-6.0) µg/L and troponin I 24.6 (NR < 0.04) µg/L. Chest radiography was unremarkable . In view of the unexplained hypoxia, computed tomography (CT) of the pulmonary arteries was done, which showed no pulmonary embolism. There was scarring with mild atelectasis in the lung bases, which was insignificant in causing his refractory hypoxia. On CT, there was reflux of contrast into the inferior vena cava and hepatic veins, in keeping with a right-heart failure. The clinical impression was a likely evolved inferior RV STEMI with cardiogenic shock. As the patient was hypoxic with high-flow oxygen and had a borderline low BP, despite the late presentation of myocardial infarction, a decision was made to transfer him to the cardiac catheterisation lab for PCI. Coronary angioplasty showed double vessel disease with 50% stenosis of proximal left anterior descending artery (pLAD) and 100% stenosis of proximal RCA (pRCA). Seeing as the patient was hypoxic and hypotensive, balloon angioplasty of the pRCA lesion was performed, with < 30% residual stenosis post-procedure. He subsequently underwent a transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), which showed a PFO with severe biventricular dysfunction with an ejection fraction of 15%. Right-to-left intra-atrial shunting through the PFO was confirmed on saline contrast study (i.e. 'bubble study') . Right-heart catheterisation showed right and left atrial mean pressures of 25 mmHg and 21 mmHg, respectively. The decision was made to close the PFO with a 9 mm Amplatzer occluder rather than a PFO device due to the wide gap. Final transoesophageal echocardiography (TOE) with agitated saline bubble contrast study, however, still showed the right-to-left shunting within the first three cardiac cycles, but the patient's oxygen saturation improved from 88% to 95% on room air. Repeat TOE three days later showed marked improvement of Not all unexplained hypoxia is pulmonary embolismABSTRACT Acute myocardial infarction is one of the conditions frequently managed in the emergency department.
There are many complications associated with right ventricular infarction, and the incidence of right ventricular infarction associated with inferior myocardial infarction is as high as 51% based on electrocardiographic findings. We herein report the case of a 45-year-old Chinese man with inferior myocardial infarction complicated by right ventricular failure. He had hypoxaemia refractory to supplemental oxygen due to an acute right-to-left shunting through a patent foramen ovale (PFO). He underwent coronary angioplasty and closure of the PFO. It is crucial for the attending physician to consider the presence of a right-to-left shunt when there is persistent uncorrectable hypoxaemia despite maximal oxygen supplementation in the setting of right ventricular infarction, as there are clinical implications and certain clinical managing principles that should be applied.
