A 27-year-old man with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) and end-stage liver disease underwent whole liver transplant. His PSC had been complicated by recurrent cholangitis, portal hypertension, progressive splenomegaly, and thrombocytopenia. The liver transplant was performed with end-to-side cavocavostomy and choledochoduodenostomy. Three days after transplantation, he underwent ERCP with endobiliary stent placement for presumed choledochoduodenal edema associated with an increased total bilirubin level, fever, and leukocytosis. Several days later, he developed ascites requiring a 4 L paracentesis. He underwent an extensive diagnostic and therapeutic effort detailed here for significant post transplantation ascites. Nuclear medicine lymphoscintigraphy following the injection of two mCi of 99mTc-sulfur colloid into both feet demonstrated normal lymphatic drainage from bilateral lower extremities to the left supraclavicular region. Examination of ascitic fluid showed no evidence of subacute bacterial peritonitis. Liver Doppler study showed low resistive indices in the hepatic arteries suggestive of hepatic artery stenosis. Two weeks after his transplant, percutaneous transjugular hepatic venography with manometry was performed, and this revealed a moderate hepatic vein narrowing with a pressure gradient of 15 mmHg between the right atrium and the hepatic vein. Furthermore, there was narrowing at the suprahepatic IVC with a cavoatrial gradient of 11 mmHg. After placement of a 20 mm 9 5 cm Cook-Z Stent (Gianturco-Rösch Tracheobronchial Design, Cook Inc. Bloomington, IN) across the narrowed suprahepatic IVC, the cavoatrial gradient decreased to 1 mmHg with the widely patent IVC ( , B). A liver biopsy performed immediately prior to stenting the suprahepatic IVC revealed the low level acute rejection and severe cholestasis. A week later, a repeat liver biopsy showed some central zone cholestasis. He underwent hepatic vein stenting decreasing a pre-stenting gradient of 14–1 mmHg post-stenting ( , D). Subsequently, the patient underwent occlusion of the proximal splenic artery with an Amplatzer Vascular Plug 1 (AVP 1, St. Jude Medical Inc. St. Paul, MN) and Tornado coils (Cook Inc. Bloomington, IN) in preparation for a splenectomy 7 weeks post-transplant ( –D). Prior to splenectomy percutaneous transhepatic portography with manometry was performed to evaluate portal vein patency and to measure portal venous pressure . During this 7 week post-operative course, seventeen repeat paracenteses were needed, each yielding 4–9 L. These issues resulted in acute kidney injury requiring continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) and hemodialysis. With splenectomy, his ascites has resolved and he no longer required renal replacement therapy.
A 58-year-old man was admitted for refractory ascites (RA) persisting for 6 months after liver transplant. He had undergone a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) procedure for bleeding esophageal varices in the setting of hepatitis C and alcoholic liver disease 13 years Inferior vena cava and hepatic vein stenting 2 weeks after liver transplantation. A Inferior vena cavography, left anterior oblique projection. The catheter was introduced from right internal jugular vein. A moderate narrowing is seen at the suprahepatic IVC (arrow) with a cavoatrial pressure gradient of 11 mmHg. B After placement of a 20 mm 9 5 cm Cook-Z stent (Cook Inc. IN), the cavoatrial gradient decreased to 1 mmHg. C Hepatic venography through the caval stent interstices. A moderate narrowing is seen at the junction of the hepatic vein and IVC with a pressure gradient of 15 mmHg between the hepatic vein and the right atrium. D CO 2 hepatic venography after placement of a Wallstent (16 9 40 mm, Boston Scientific Co. Natick, MA) across the hepatic-IVC junction, there was one mmHg gradient between the hepatic vein and the right atrium prior to the liver transplantation . Three years prior to his liver transplant, he developed RA despite confirmation of a widely patent TIP. Interrogation of his TIPS stent on multiple occasions revealed patency of the TIPS, elevated direct portal pressures and normal right atrial pressures. His portosystemic gradient remained at 20 mmHg with a patent TIPS. Subsequent CT images showed an arteriovenous malformation involving the distal pancreas ( , B). Percutaneous transfemoral celiac angiogram showed arteriovenous shunting from the pancreatic malformation into the portal vein ( , B). Prior to distal pancreatectomy, transhepatic portography was performed to assess portal vein blood flow and portal venous pressure . His ascites was treated with diuretics and paracenteses that resulted in an acute kidney injury treated with octreotide and midodrine hydrochloride. Recurrent nonbleeding esophageal varices were banded. Partial embolization of the pancreatic AVM was performed with polyvinyl alcohol particles on two occasions in an attempt to decrease his portal venous pressures. However, his ascites persisted and became refractory to a diuretic management. Two months later, he underwent orthotropic liver transplantation (OLT) with side to side cavocavostomy and choledochodochostomy. At the time of his transplantation, the pancreatic AVM was not resected. Six months after transplant, he had again developed ascites and acute kidney injury. There was no evidence of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP). Percutaneous transjugular hepatic venography and manometry revealed no hepatic venous outflow obstruction and documented a wedgedhepatic venous pressure of 12 mmHg and a right atrial pressure of 8 mmHg. Hepatic Doppler ultrasound study was unremarkable. A liver biopsy showed spotty hepatocyte necrosis, sinusoidal dilatation, and hypertrophy of sinusoidal cells. With the percutaneous transhepatic access to the portal vein, a direct portal pressure was measured at 16 mmHg with an atrial pressure of 6 mm Hg. Seven months post-transplant, he underwent distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy, and this yielded resolution of his ascites. He has not had recurrent ascites for the ensuing 12 months follow-up.
