Case 1 A Japanese baby boy was delivered at 37 weeks' gestation by emergent cesarean section because of the diagnosis of severe fetal distress. At 33 to 34 weeks' gestation, fetal CDH and omphalocele had been detected by fetal ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI; ). Immediately after delivery, he was intubated and mechanical ventilation was started. His birth body weight was approximately 2700 g. His Apgar score was four at 1 minute and eight at 5 minutes. Left CDH was confirmed by radiography. Multiple associated malformations (coarctation of aorta, left ventricular hypoplasia, left multicystic kidney, micropenis, right anophthalmia and left microphthalmia) were observed. Trisomy 13 was suspected and the diagnosis was confirmed by genetic testing. Construction of a silo using a wound retractor was urgently performed on the first day of his life because his hernial sac ruptured at delivery. The defect size of his abdominal wall was approximately 3×4 cm diameter. His entire small intestine and two thirds of his colon were outside his abdominal cavity. After his condition was stabilized, repair of the diaphragmatic hernia and closure of his abdominal wall were successfully performed on day 5. A hernial sac containing his spleen, two thirds of his stomach, and his polycystic left kidney had entered his chest cavity through a 2×2 cm defect in his diaphragm. The posterior, anterior, and lateral borders of the defect consisted of diaphragmatic muscle, but the medial border was formed by the esophageal hiatus . Direct closure of the defect was performed after resection of the hernial sac and then his abdominal wall was also closed primarily. A postoperative surgical complication, such as wound infection or recurrence of CDH, was not observed. Although his respiratory and circulative conditions were unstable, his parents did not allow surgical treatment for coarctation of aorta and left ventricular hypoplasia. Conservative intensive treatments were performed by a neonatologist. Mechanical ventilation with intratracheal intubation was continued until day 22 after birth; then,nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) support was performed because hypoxia, which might have been due to congenital cardiovascular disease and apnea due to trisomy 13, was observed. He was discharged 5 months postnatally with home oxygen therapy. However, he was readmitted because of heart failure and died at 6 months.
A Japanese baby boy was delivered at 35 weeks' gestation by emergent cesarean section because of the diagnosis of fetal distress. At 21 weeks' gestation, fetal gastroschisis had been detected by fetal ultrasonography. Five minutes after delivery, he was intubated and mechanical ventilation was started because of hypoxia. His birth weight was 1892 g and his Apgar score was seven at 1 minute and eight at 5 minutes. His entire small intestine, part of his colon, and the greater curvature of his stomach were outside his abdomen, so a silo was constructed using a wound retractor . He had severe generalized edema and hypovolemia, requiring intensive management. On day 10 of his life, direct closure of his abdominal defect was performed. After silo establishment, severe systemic edema and intravenous hypovolemia were observed and intensive neonatal care was performed by a neonatologist. Although he recovered from abdominal distention soon after abdominal closure, his respiratory condition was unstable and intensive care was continued. Trisomy 21 was confirmed by genetic examination. Mechanical ventilation with intratracheal intubation was continued until day 16 after birth, and then nasal CPAP respiratory support was performed because of his prolonged hypercapnea which might have been due to trisomy 21. Chest X-ray examinations were performed periodically. On day 161 after his birth, intestinal gas in his mediastinum was detected radiographically , although his respiratory condition was unchanged. Direct closure of a retrosternal defect in his diaphragm measuring 2.5×3.5 cm  was performed along with resection of his hernial sac. His postoperative course was uneventful and he was discharged.
