In the pre-transplant work-up done prior to our evaluation, his transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed normal left ventricular systolic function, and a right heart catheterization revealed mild pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure 28mmHg) with a normal cardiac index. In addition, a left heart catheterization was performed and was not indicative of coronary artery disease, with normal O 2 saturations. His lung perfusion scan showed no evidence of extra-respiratory fixation of technetium. Partial pressures of oxygen (PaO 2 ) and carbonuse, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly credited. The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver (http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated. dioxide (PaCO 2 ) on room air at evaluation were 62mmHg and 46mmHg, respectively. His pulmonary function tests showed a spirometry diffusion capacity of 30 % predicted and severe restriction. A computed tomography (CT) scan of his chest revealed extensive bilateral diffuse pulmonary fibrosis, with severe honeycombing. His ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) scan showed no evidence of extra-respiratory fixation of technetium, and also a low probability of pulmonary embolism. He underwent a left single-lung transplant off-pump. The cytomegalovirus status was donor and recipient positive. The intra-operative and early post-operative periods were uneventful, allowing extubation on post-operative day (POD) one, and discharge from the intensive care unit (ICU) at POD four. Post-extubation, he still required a significant amount of supplemental oxygen (5 liters/min) to keep his oxygen saturation level at around 90 %, higher even than the amount required in the pre-operative period. His chest X-ray showed a normal left lung and a fibrosed right lung, with a mediastinal shift to the right side . His bronchoscopy revealed normal left bronchial anastomosis with patent distal airways. We performed a bronchioloalveolar lavage, which was negative for bacterial, viral, and fungal agents. The results of his transbronchial biopsies were negative for acute rejection. A contrast-enhanced CT of his chest did not disclose any sign of pulmonary embolism, and showed minimal atelectasis in the lower lobe of the transplanted lung. On POD seven, he developed a new complaint of worsening dyspnea in an upright position or walking, which was relieved by lying in a supine position. This was associated with desaturation on pulse oxymetry (platypnea-orthodeoxia). A V/Q scan was ordered which showed a perfusion to the right lung of 80 %, normal ventilation to the transplanted lung, and significant tracer uptake by the kidneys and brain, indicative of a right-toleft shunt. We performed a two-dimensional TTE, which showed normal pulmonary pressure and left ventricular ejection fraction. The main abnormality was an aneurysm motion defect of the inter-atrial septum . His color Doppler and saline contrast echocardiogram tests showed a patent foramen ovale (PFO) with massive spontaneousright-to-left shunting. The aortic root was also seen to be dilated (4.0cm). As his respiratory condition had deteriorated in the week following the transplant, he underwent an emergent percutaneous PFO closure. A large PFO (7mm in diameter) with a massive right-to-left shunt was confirmed . Right-side pressures were normal on his right heart catheterization (mean 16). The PFO was closed using a 35-mm occluding device (Amplatzer™ PFO Occluder, AGA Medical Corporation, Minnesota, USA) with ultrasound-guided transesophageal echocardiography. No residual shunt was observed immediately after implantation. Immediately after the procedure, his oxygen saturation improved with minimal oxygen supplementation. The day after the procedure, he was eupneic at rest, with a PaO 2 and PaCO 2 of 82mmHg and 34mmHg, respectively, on room air. He was discharged on POD 12. His respiratory status remains satisfactory 10 months after his lung transplant, and he has no need for supplemental oxygen.
