The prospectively maintained pediatric neurosurgery electronic database of BCCH was queried for patients younger than 18 years of age who had been treated for cranial CMs from 1992, when MRI became available at BCCH, to 2014. For the purposes of our study, we then selected patients who had undergone surgery for CCMs and had a histologically confirmed diagnosis. Their charts were retrospectively reviewed for clinical presentation, imaging and surgical features, histopathology, and outcome. All patients had undergone cranial CT and MRI before surgery and MRI after surgery.
There were 4 male patients and 1 female patient whose ages ranged from 2.5 to 14 years, with a mean age of 7 ± 4.6 years at presentation . All patients were asymptomatic prior to presenting with acute or rapidly progressing headaches.
This 11-year-old boy presented with a 2-week history of the sudden onset of occipital headaches and vomiting. He had intermittent fever and was treated for gastritis in an outpatient clinic. When the symptoms did not resolve and he developed gait ataxia and double vision, he was transferred to BCCH. On arrival, he was cachectic as a result of vomiting, was complaining of severe occipital headaches, and had a left sixth cranial nerve (CN) palsy, ataxia, and left-sided dysmetria.
This 5-year-old boy presented with a 14-day history of increasing headaches. During transport in our hospital, he experienced one syncopal episode. He did not have papilledema, dysmetria, or ataxia. His CN examination was normal.
This 14-year-old girl had a 4-day history of occipital headaches. Her neurological examination was normal.
This 3-year-old boy was admitted for increasing headaches and unsteadiness of gait, which started a few days before admission. He was neurologically intact except for gait ataxia. There was a history of familial CM, as his father was known to have multiple intracranial CMs.
This 2.5-year-old girl presented with the acute onset of severe headaches and a normal neurological examination.
