A 53-year-old man was admitted to our hospital in December 2013 for treatment of refractory TEF. Before this admission, he had been diagnosed and treated at a local hospital. He had a history of moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma in the mid esophagus and had undergone radical esophagectomy (left transthoracic esophagectomy and esophagogastrostomy above thedeveloped a benign stricture at the anastomotic site and underwent endoscopic dilatation about once a month for the next 5 years. In October 2013, the patient elected to undergo stenting with an 18 9 60 mm covered selfexpanding nitinol stent (Micro-Tech Co. Ltd., Nanjing, China) because he could no longer tolerate repeated dilatations. Eight days after stent placement, he presented with coughing associated with eating and drinking. A TEF at the upper part of stent was found on esophagoscopy, and the stent was then removed. The patient was treated with placement of a covered tracheal stent and injection of fibrin glue, but failed to achieve closure of the fistula. The patient was then transferred to our hospital for further care. Upon arrival to our emergency department, the patient was severely malnourished and short of breath. Auscultation of the lungs revealed diffuse moist rales bilaterally. His body mass index was 14.4 kg/m 2 , and his serum albumin concentration was 22 g/L. Arterial blood gas analysis revealed a PO 2 of 56 mmHg. Enhanced CT scan results displayed a TEF 6.5 mm in greatest dimension 2 cm above the anastomosis, evidence of esophagectomy, and severe pulmonary infection in both lungs ( , C). The patient was offered surgical or nonsurgical closure using an ASD occluder and opted for the minimally invasive closure. The procedure was performed in the catheterization laboratory. The occluder system (Cera TM ASD occluder; LifeTech Scientific; Shenzhen, China) consists of a selfexpandable, double-umbrella device covered with polyester fabric . Because endoesophageal placement of the ASD occluder for closure of TEF has been reported to result in its migration into the airway , we chose an endotracheal approach, leaving the larger, distal umbrella in the esophagus, to prevent device migration. The patient received intravenous anesthesia, endotracheal intubation, and ventilator assistance. Via the endotracheal tube, a 4-French C2 catheter (Cordis Corp; Miami Lakes, FL, USA) with a 0.035 inch, 150-cm guidewire (Terumo Corp; Tokyo, Japan) was inserted through the fistula into the thoracic stomach under direct visualization using a pediatric bronchoscope. From the catheter, a 260-cm Amplatzer guidewire (Cordis Corp) was exchanged, and a 45-cm, 7-French renal artery sheath (Flexor Check-Flo introducer sheath; Cook Medical; Bloomington, IN, USA) was inserted into the esophageal side . From the sheath, an ASD occluder with a 10 mm diameter waist, a 22 mm diameter distal umbrella, and an 18 mm diameter proximal umbrella was then introduced and released from the esophageal to the tracheal-side under endoscopic and fluoroscopic control ( –D). Three hours after the procedure, the patient underwent esophagography, which showed complete closure of the fistula . The patient resumed an oral diet after the procedure and was discharged 3 days postoperatively. Before discharge, we instructed the patient to have the device removed when the re-epithelialized mucosa was seen to cover the esophageal-side umbrella during endoscopic dilatation therapy at his local hospital. After discharge from our hospital, hecontinued to undergo endoscopic dilatation about once a month. Three months after the procedure, his first followup examination was performed. He felt good, and had neither cough nor fever. His body mass index increased to 19.2 kg/m 2. Esophagography and CT scan were performed and showed closure of the fistula, good position of occluder, and significant resolution of pneumonia ( , D). Five months after the procedure, the patient informed us that endoscopy had revealed complete coverage of the esophageal-side umbrella with re-epithelialized mucosa and granulation tissue. However, he had decided not to have the occluder removed. Three hundred eighteen days after the procedure, he had presented with sudden severe cough after dilatation of the esophagogastric anastomosis and spontaneously coughed out the occluder. The patient was quickly brought to our hospital, where esophagography and CT scan showed closure of the fistula . The shapes of the removed occluder umbrellas were normal. By the end of the 13-month follow-up period, the
