Case 1 is the second child of non-consanguineous parents of Malay descent with no significant family history of congenital heart defects or developmental delay. Antenatal history was unremarkable. She was born full term via normal vaginal delivery. Her birth weight was 2580 gm (3rd–10th percentile), length was 46 cm (3rd percentile) and head circumference was 31 cm (3rd percentile). There were no immediate postnatal complications, and she was discharged home on day 2 of life. She presented to our hospital at 4 months of age with poor weight gain. On examination, she was noted to be in congestive cardiac failure. She was tachypneic and tachycardic. A continuous murmur was heard over left infraclavicular region. The apex beat was displaced, and she had hepatomegaly. Echocardiography showed a large patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) with a dilated left heart. She underwent surgical closure of the PDA when she was 5 months old. Repeat echocardiogram (22 days postligation) showed LVNC and dilated cardiomyopathy, and she was started on diuretics. On subsequent follow-up, she was noted to have developmental delay and hypotonia and was referred to the genetics clinic for further evaluation. On examination (at 8 months), her weight was 5.97 kg (0.3 kg below 3rd percentile), height was 63.6 cm (0.5 cm below 3rd percentile) and head circumference was 39.5 cm (1 cm below 3rd percentile). She was noted to have minor facial anomalies, including deep set eyes and midface hypoplasia, but not suggestive of any specific syndromic diagnosis. Cardiac examination revealed normal first and second heart sounds with a soft ejection systolic murmur at the left sternal edge. Respiratory and abdominal examinations were normal. Neurological examination revealed hypotonia but normal reflexes. Her developmental age was assessed to be around 5 months. She developed seizures at 1 year old; electroencephalography showed multifocal spikes, and MRI brain showed right subependymal heterotopia. At her last review at 15 months old, her height was 74 cm (10–25th percentile), weight was 8.4 kg (10–25th percentile) and head circumference was 40 cm (3 cm less than 3rd percentile). Her karyotype was normal. Case 2 is the first child of non-consanguineous parents of Chinese descent with no significant family history of congenital heart defects or developmental delay. There were no concerns during the initial antenatal period, but at 37 weeks of gestation, fetal movement was decreased. A fetal ultrasound showed cardiomegaly and an emergency lower segment cesarean section was performed. Her birth weight was 2900 gm (50th percentile), length was 47 cm (10th percentile) and head circumference was 34 cm (50th percentile). APGAR scores were 5 and 7 at 1 and 5 min after birth, respectively. She was resuscitated and intubated at birth for persistent hypoxia. On echocardiography performed for poor oxygen saturation, she was diagnosed to have persistent pulmonary hypertension and PDA. She wastreated for presumed sepsis and discharged after 1 week. She was readmitted at 2 weeks of age for respiratory distress. Repeat echocardiography (at 2 weeks old) showed biventricular hypertrophy, a small PDA and a normal biventricular contractility with a fractional shortening of 29.7 %. Blood alpha glucosidase level (to exclude Pompe disease) and inborn error of metabolism screening (plasma amino acid, plasma acylcarnitine profile, plasma lactate and urine organic acid) were normal. On serial echocardiography, she was found to have LVNC at 2 months old.
). These findings on CMA are consistent with the diagnosis of 1p36 microdeletion syndrome.Discussion Here, we describe two individuals with LVNC in association with developmental delay who were subsequently diagnosed with 1p36 microdeletion syndrome. 1p36 microdeletion syndrome is one of the commoner microdeletion syndromes and has a reported incidence of 1:5000–1:10,000 . It is caused by loss of genetic material at the terminal band on the short arm of chromosome 1. The majority of patients have distinctive facies (deep set eyes, straight eyebrows, long philtrum, small chin and posteriorly rotated ears), hypotonia, learning difficulties, seizures, visual and hearing problems and congenital anomalies involving multiple organs including congenital heart defects such as LVNC 
. There are recent reports that facial dysmorphism in children with 1p36 deletion syndrome can be mild and variable as was the case in both our patients. Patients with 1p36 microdeletion syndrome need long-term medical follow-up. Over time, some show improvement in motor milestones, social interaction and adaptive behavior . The cytogenetic aberration is typically detected on CMA, although in some individuals, the deletion is large enough to be picked up on conventional karyotype. LVNC has been reported to be present in 23 % of patients in cohort studies of 1p36 deletion syndrome . Mutations in or deletions involving PRDM16 gene (OMIM#605557), located at 1p36.32, have been implicated as a cause of both LVNC and dilated cardiomyopathy. Disruption of PRDM16 impairs proliferative capacity during cardiogenesis. Modeling of PRDM16 haploinsufficiency in zebra fish resulted in both contractile dysfunction and uncoupling of cardiomyocytes, which could result in LVNC . In both our patients, their deletions involved PRDM16 . Beyond 1p36 microdeletion syndrome, other etiologies for LVNC in children can be divided into 4 groups: syndromic disorders, inborn errors of metabolism (IEM), monogenic disorders and environmental causes. In a child who is diagnosed with LVNC, it is important to investigate the underlying cause as some of the conditions are potentially treatable. For others, establishing a diagnosis allows for gene/diagnosis specific surveillance and anticipatory management for associated medical problems. Finally, diagnosing the underlying condition enables more accurate genetic counseling for the family.Turner syndrome Trisomy 21 Trisomy 18 Trisomy 13 Syndromes associated with copy number variations Velocardiofacial syndrome 1p36 deletion syndrome Syndromes associated with neuromuscular diseases Duchenne muscular dystrophy; Becker muscular dystrophy Limb girdle muscular dystrophy Multiminicore disease Other syndromes Sotos syndrome Marfan syndrome Noonan syndrome LEOPARD syndrome Cornelia De Lange syndrome Roifman syndrome Hypomelanosis of Ito Nail patella syndrome Other CNV 8p23.1 deletion Trisomic for the 4q31 ? qter region and monosomic for the 1q43 ? 1qter 1q43 deletion Distal 5q deletion Firstly, a child diagnosed with LVNC should be evaluated for signs of complications such as heart failure, arrhythmia and thromboembolism . The presence of acute symptoms like chest pain and dyspnea will need to be looked into urgently. Myocardial ischemia and myocarditis will need to be excluded with ECG, cardiac enzymes and urgent echocardiography. These complications will need urgent attention and intervention. Other information which should be gathered include if LVNC coexists with other form of heart defects or cardiomyopathy. Family history of LVNC should be elucidated, and screening echocardiography for first degree relatives should be considered. Subsequent evaluation should include assessment for genetic syndromes. Examination should focus on assessment for craniofacial dysmorphism, proximal myopathy and learning disability . If a specific genetic syndrome is recognized, confirmation of the syndrome via confirmatory testing should be performed. If no genetic syndrome is identified, investigations to look for abnormalities related to IEM should be considered next. Metabolic acidosis, lactic acidosis and/or abnormal urine organic acid results would suggest a diagnosis of an IEM. Clinical suspicion of IEM can be confirmed by enzyme testing or genetic testing . If no specific diagnosis of genetic syndrome or inborn error of metabolism is apparent, CMA to look for microdeletion or microduplication syndromes is the next suggested step. CMA can detect genetic imbalances in patients with greater resolution than conventional karyotyping . The implications of these changes, also known as copy number variants (CNV), will depend on the region of these CNV. Digilio et al. reported that in a group of 25 patients with syndromic LVNC, diagnosis was made with standard chromosome analysis and subtelomeric fluorescent in situ hybridization in seven patients. Microarray analysis in the remaining patients detected two patients with pathogenic CNV. The overall diagnostic yield of the combination of all the methods was one-third of this cohort of patients with syndromic LVNC. If no pathogenic variant is identified on CMA, massively parallel sequencing (MPS) of candidate genes can be considered to detect monogenic disorders . Schaefer et al.
reported a case of an infant with severe LVNC with compound heterozygous mutations in theMYBPC3 gene identified by MPS within 3 days. The diagnosis enabled screening for other family members and genetic counseling. In a laboratory providing diagnostic services for LVNC for associated genes by MPS, clinically significant variants were detected in 24 % of 108 broadly referred individuals with LVNC. Variants were present in MYH7 (13.6 %), MYBPC3(4.0 %), TNNI3 (2.0 %), VCL (2.8 %), TAZ (1.1 %) and TNNT2 (1.0 %) . With advancement in techniques of molecular genetic investigations, more genetic mutations associated with LVNC can be identified.
