A neonate with an antenatal diagnosis of TOF-APV required tracheal intubation and mechanical ventilator support shortly after birth. He failed extubation and despite the use of inhaled nitric oxide, acceptable systemic oxygen saturations could not be maintained and the baby was referred for surgery on the sixth day of life. Transthoracic echocardiogram and computerized tomogram  demonstrated anatomy consistent with TOF-APV. The branch pulmonary arteries were aneurysmal with compression of underlying airways, especially the left main bronchus. Fluorescent in situ hybridization testing  was performed on peripheral blood lymphocytes using the Cytocell DiGeorge region probe set, which includes a probe for the HIRA gene at 22q11.2 and a control probe (SHANK3 gene) at 22q13.3. A total of 200 nuclei were examined and 132 (66%) nuclei showed only one signal for the HIRA gene probe at 22q11.2. The remaining 68 (34%) nuclei all showed a disomic copy number for the HIRA gene probe. All 200 nuclei showed two copies of the control probe at 22q13.3. This result was confirmed by metaphase FISH and was consistent with a mosaic interstitial microdeletion of 22q11.2. Of the 10 metaphases examined, 5 (50%) showed one of the chromosome 22 homologues missing the HIRA gene probe signal in conjunction with an intact SHANK3 probe signal at 22q13.3. The remaining five metaphases showed a normal signal pattern with both chromosome 22 homologues showing hybridization with the HIRA gene probe and SHANK3 gene control probe. Conventional analysis by G-bands by trypsin using Giemsa (GTG) banding, at a resolution of 550 bands per haploid set (bphs), did not detect any abnormalities. Microarray testing was also undertaken using the Affymetrix CytoScan 750K array. Data were analyzed using Chromosome Analysis Suite Software with copy number changes reported at a resolution of 200 kb, and using reference sequence GRCh37/hg19. A 1.66 Mb deletion at 22q11.2 was evident resulting in the loss of one copy of the genes in this region. The deletion can be identified as mosaic with the software (vs 2.1) calling a copy number state of 1.68. This deletion was smaller than the typical 22q11.2 microdeletions of 3 Mb, although they can range in size from 1.5 to 3 Mb. The child did not have palatal or facial abnormalities and had normal blood calcium levels. Baseline screening of lymphocyte subsets showed a CD4þ Tcell lymphopenia and a mildly reduced CD4:CD8 ratio (1.07). Intraoperatively, the presence of a thymus was noted. The pulmonary trunk and branches were aneurysmal (the diameter of left pulmonary artery and right pulmonary artery was 22-24 mm and 20 mm, respectively). The branch aneurysms extended into the hilum of both lungs. The segmental branches were hypoplastic, coming off as tufts from the pulmonary aneurysms. The pulmonary valve was dysplastic. The TOF-APV was repaired with closure of the ventricular septal defect, reduction plasty of right and left pulmonary arteries, and implantation of a right ventricle-to-pulmonary artery valved conduit. The baby was extubated on the seventhpostoperative day. The baby had a prolonged hospital stay. The protracted clinical course was attributed to left-sided bronchomalacia which is known to be associated with TOFAPV with aneurysmal pulmonary arteries (as opposed to being specifically related to the chromosomal anomaly). There was a persistent marginal lymphopenia postoperatively, but there were no infectious complications. Fluorescent in situ hybridization studies were subsequently undertaken on paraffin-embedded pulmonary artery tissue using the Cytocell DiGeorge region probe set . One hundred and eighty-six interphase nuclei were examined. They showed a mosaic signal pattern (158 nuclei showed 1 signal and 28 nuclei showed 2 signals for the 22q11.2HIRA probe). All nuclei showed a disomic copy number for the control probe (SHANK3) at 22q13.3. The paraffin FISH result was consistent with the lymphocyte FISH studies. The Mater Children's Hospital Ethics Committee waived the ethics approval, as parental consent for publication had been obtained.
