A 39-year-old woman with a 9-week abdominal pregnancy noted pain in her lower abdomen and left leg and visited our hospital. She was a full-time housewife. This was her first pregnancy, and she did not have a history of miscarriage. She did not receive any infertility treatment. The results of a physical examination of height, weight, body temperature, blood pressure, heart rate and SpO2 on admission were 153 cm, 44.6 kg, 36.9, 99/68 mmHg, 83/min and 99%, respectively, and abnormal findings revealed redness and swelling of the left thigh. No abnormalities were seen on an electrocardiogram or chest X-ray obtained on admission . Since the laboratory data showed increased white blood cell and D-dimer levels in the blood, we performed ultrasonography of the leg veins to assess suspected left deep venous thrombosis ( . We observed a thrombus that was continuous from the external iliac vein to the popliteal vein and subsequently made a diagnosis of left DVT. To evaluate the potential for pulmonary thromboembolism in DVT, we performed contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) after obtaining informed consent. We observed a successive thrombus extending from the left common iliac vein and further recognized a filling defect in the left pulmonary artery. We therefore made a diagnosis of pulmonary thromboembolism and DVT . These findings may have been due to May-Thurner syndrome because the thrombus in a deep vein in the left leg occurred due to compression of the left common iliac vein under pressure caused by the right common iliac artery and a vertebral body . Furthermore, dehydration resulting from hyperemesis was regarded as a cause. On the other hand, there were no abnormal findings on various blood tests suggestive of a predisposition to thrombus development ( . After admission, we inserted a temporary inferior vena cava filter from the internal jugular vein to prevent further progression of pulmonary embolism and started a continuous infusion of heparin, setting a goal of APTT of 1.5-2 fold versus that at admission. Although the thrombus in the left common iliac vein remained, as assessed on ultrasound, we judged that the thrombosis had stabilized for the following reasons. First, the patient's symptoms disappeared. Second, the disappearance of inflammation and normalization of the D-dimer level were confirmed on blood tests. Third, the thrombus was reduced in size and the residual thrombus tissue was organized on ultrasound. Therefore, we removed the temporary inferior vena cava filter after two weeks. We subsequently started to inject heparin subcutaneously and continued this treatment at discharge. The target value of APTT was set 1.5-fold higher than the value observed on admission (approximately 25,000 units/day of heparin). We did not use warfarin based on the consideration of possible adverse effects on the fetus. As an outpatient, the patient continued her pregnancy without any problems and gave birth to a healthy baby at 38 weeks via vaginal delivery. A CT assessment performed after birth showed that the thrombus was still present, and warfarin therapy was started.
