A three-month-old female Rottweiler puppy, weighing 11.6 kg, was referred to the cardiology service of the Veterinary Teaching Hospital of Perugia University, Italy for further assessment and treatment of CTD. When presented to the referring veterinarian, the dog had a history of gradual abdominal enlargement over the previous weeks. CDT was diagnosed by transthoracic echocardiography and medical treatment included furosemide(2 mg/kg orally twice daily), spironolactone (2 mg/kg orally once daily), and ramipril (0.25 mg/kg orally once daily). On clinical examination, the dog was bright and alert with a heart rate (HR, beats/min) of 136 and a respiratory rate (RR, breaths/min) of 36, but showed poor body condition (body condition score 3/9) and a markedly enlarged abdomen with a fluid wave. Abdominal ultrasound revealed severe ascites associated with evident hepatomegaly and hepatic venous congestion. Abdominocentesis revealed modified transudate ascitic fluid (specific gravity 1020, total protein 2.2 g/dL, poor cellularity). Cardiac auscultation revealed no heart murmur or arrhythmia. Transthoracic echocardiography 5 showed a thin, hyperechoic membrane that divided the right atrium into a cranial and caudal chamber. The tricuspid valve, cranial vena cava inlet, and right auricle were included in the cranial chamber, whereas the caudal chamber included the caudal vena cava inlet and the coronary sinus. A 4.5 mm opening allowed the blood to flow from the caudal to the cranial chamber. A colour Doppler 5 examination showed turbulent flow from the caudal to the cranial chamber of the right atrium across the anomalous membrane, with a peak velocity of approximately 2.2 m/sec. From these findings, CTD was confirmed and correction of the anomalous membrane by a balloon dilation technique was scheduled for the following day. Hematologic parameters had revealed alterations in both blood count and in biochemical analysis . Prior to the anaesthetic procedure, the two cephalic veins were aseptically catheterized with a 20 gauge cannula. Patient preoxygenation (flow-by: 5 L/min of pure oxygen) was allowed before and after premedication. Pre-anaesthesia included consecutive intravenous (IV) administration of 0.5 μg/kg sufentanil and 0.2 mg/kg midazolam. Five minutes after premedication, general anaesthesia was induced with 2 mg/kg propofol, administered as a single, progressive IV bolus. The dog's trachea was intubated with a 6.5 mm cuffed tube, which was connected to a non-rebreathing system (Bain-type). General anaesthesia was maintained with isoflurane diluted in oxygen (fresh gas flow: 3 L/min); concurrently, a constant rate infusion (CRI) of 0.5 μg/kg/h sufentanil 9 and 5 mL/kg/h of lactated Ringer's solution were administered IV by infusion pumps. When an adequate depth of anaesthesia was achieved, the dog was positioned in right lateral recumbency for the cardiovascular corrective procedure. The patient was allowed to spontaneously breathe during the entire anaesthetic procedure and did not required artificial ventilation support. A 24 gauge cannula was aseptically inserted into the metacarpal artery to measure direct blood pressure. HR, RR, electrocardiogram (ECG), invasive arterial blood pressure (systolic arterial pressure, diastolic arterial pressure, mean arterial pressure (MAP); mmHg), haemoglobin oxygen saturation (SpO 2 , %), end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure (EtCO 2 , mmHg), end-tidal isoflurane concentration (EtIso, %), and rectal temperature (T,°C) were continuously monitored and recorded every 5 min. During inflation and deflation of the balloon catheter (BC), the same parameters were recorded every 2 min. The transducer was zeroed at the level of the manubrium of the sternum. The interventional procedure included percutaneous access from the right femoral vein by the Seldinger technique and the subsequent positioning of two balloon valvuloplasty catheters 20 (first 12 mm and then 22 mm) across the intra-atrial membrane, under transthoracic echocardiography guidance 5. Ten consecutive hand inflations with a 12 mm BC 20 were performed. The dilation procedure was then repeated by using a 22 mm BC 20. The HR from the beginning to the end of the anaesthesia ranged from 126 to 163 and the MAP from 62 to 82 .
shows the values of RR, SpO 2 , EtCO 2 , EtIso, and T. During the interventional procedure, several arrhythmias were noted and recorded (ventricular and supraventricular tachyarrhythmias). Transient supraventricular extrasystoles were observed during the placement of the guide wire and BC 20 , but spontaneously resolved following the withdrawal of the dilation instrumentations from the atrial wall. During balloon inflations (22 mm BC 20 ), ventricular and junctional beats  and non-sustained supraventricular tachycardia  occurred, with spontaneous conversion to sinus rhythm after the end of the dilation procedure. These arrhythmias did not show any haemodynamic impact on the arterial pressure.
provides the total anaesthesia and cardiovascular procedure time, the total inflation-deflation time of the BC 20 , the number of BC 20 inflations, and the total dose and CRI time of sufentanil 9. The dog was extubated 9 min after the end of the anaesthesia and was able to stand after 14 min. The recovery was uneventful and the patient was hospitalized post-operatively for two days.
