A 50-year-old woman with no past medical history except for untreated dental caries was referred to our hospital. In the primary care hospital, she was treated with 2 g/day cefazolin for the initial 2 weeks. Subsequently, cefazolin treatment was replaced with sulbactam/ampicillin (6 g/day) and administered for 2 weeks. However, the patient suffered from a persistent fever for one month. The physical examination showed a systolic murmur, a blood pressure of 110/ 60 mmHg, heart rate of 90 beats/min, a body temperature of 40 and O2 saturation of 90% with ambient air. The electrocardiogram showed a sinus rhythm with an incomplete right bundle branch block and right axis deviation. The chest radiograph revealed a cardiac enlargement and infiltrate shadows in the lower lobes of both lungs. The laboratory findings included a white blood cell count of 10.5×10 9 / L, C-reactive protein level of 15.0 mg/dL and B-type natriuretic peptide concentration of 166 pg/mL. In six blood culture examinations, one sample grew Gram-negative bacilli. Echocardiography showed a secundum ASD measuring 24 mm in diameter with a left-to-right shunting flow through the defect , as well as moderate TR  with RV and right atrial enlargement. The Qp/Qs ratio was calculated to be 2.9. No other concomitant disorders, such as a ventricular septum defect, aortic and mitral valve diseases or patent ductus arteriosus, were detected. The estimated systolic pulmonary artery pressure was 50 mmHg. We found a mobile vegetation measuring 15×10 mm attached to the anterior leaflet of the tricuspid valve ( , D). Notably, the vegetation had grown in size over the previous 3 days to 20×10 mm. Chest computed tomography (CT) showed a secundum ASD ( Because the blood culture grew Gram-negative bacilli, we modified the regimen to a combination of 2 g/day ceftriaxone and 120 mg/day gentamicin. Although brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) indicated no evidence of a stroke or intracranial aneurysm, given the risk of further pulmonary embolism and paradoxical embolism, urgent surgical treatment consisting of the removal of the vegetation, tricuspid valve replacement and ASD patch-closure was successfully performed. Intraoperatively, we confirmed an isolated secundum ASD  and found that the vegetation was attached to the anterior leaflet of the tricuspid valve ( , C). Microscopically, the vegetation consisted of aggregated leukocytes and fibrin . According to these findings, a diagnosis of tricuspid valve IE associated with isolated ASD was confirmed. The antibiotic therapy was continued for 4 weeks in the postoperative course. The patient's recovery was uneventful and she was discharged 6 weeks after surgery.
