A 41-year-old male patient presented to our hospital for routine follow-up of pneumonia. In the previous years, the patient had suffered from two spontaneous bilateral pneumothoraces which were treated by drainage. Physical examination was unremarkable. Chest auscultation was normal. Chest radiography showed a mass in the posterior mediastinum. Further investigation with MRI and endoscopic ultrasound revealed a large vascular lesion on the right side of the proximal descending thoracic aorta, which was thought to be a giant aneurysm of an intercostal artery, associated with a paravertebral, pleural arteriovenous malformation. Diagnostic angiography confirmed a postostial saccular aneurysm of the fourth, right intercostal artery, measuring approximately 8 cm . The aneurysm communicated with a complex pleural AVM consisting of multiple nidal components and several draining pulmonary veins with an abnormal morphology . Additional arterial feeders originated from the right subclavian artery and the third right intercostal artery. Further diagnostic work-up revealed no spinal arteries arising from the feeding arteries. The Adamkiewicz artery was confirmed to originate from an intercostobronchial artery on the left side. The lesion was thought to be related to thoracic drainage for a spontaneous pneumothorax the patient had suffered from years ago. Although the patient had no actual physical discomfort, treatment of the aneurysm was considered mandatory because of the high risk of growth and rupture of the aneurysm. Endovascular treatment was chosen, using a bilateral transarterial approach. The procedure was performed under general anesthesia. A 5 Fr and 6 Fr sheath were placed in the right and left femoral artery, respectively. A 5 Fr Cobra catheter was then placed in the proximal fourth right intercostal artery. Subsequently, the distal intercostal artery (outflow of the aneurysm) was catheterized using a 2.8 Fr Progreat microcatheter (Terumo, Leuven, Belgium) . A 4 Fr Cobra catheter was placed inside the aneurysm via the right femoral artery. The lateral part of the aneurysm was then embolized via the 4 Fr Cobra using 23 0.035 MReye stainless steel coils with diameter ranging from 2 to 5 mm (Cook, Denmark) . Next, the aneurysm outflow and therefore several arteriovenous fistulas were embolized via the microcatheter using a Glubran2(GEM, Italy)/Lipiodol (Guerbet, France) mixture (1:3) under fluoroscopic control. The 4 Fr Cobra catheter was then removed. Further Glubran2/Lipiodol embolization of the aneurysm was performed while slowly pulling back the microcatheter, until the aneurysm inflow and the proximal part of the intercostal artery were closed. Subsequent angiograms of the thoracic aorta and the nearby intercostal arteries showed occlusion of the aneurysm and part of the pleural arteriovenous malformation . There were no complications. The patient was discharged from the hospital 3 days later. A 6-month control angiography of the thoracic aorta confirmed the occlusion of the intercostal aneurysm. Part of the pleural AVM was still supplied by other intercostal and thoracic arteries .
