A 59-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for fever and rapidly progressing dyspnea that had persisted for 10 days. He had been diagnosed with apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in his 30s, although he had no regular medical checkups and was asymptomatic. On admission, the patient had mild wheezes audible in the midportion of the right lung and a diastolic murmur heard at the Erb and the cardiac apical area. Chest x-ray and computed tomography revealed cardiac enlargement with increased pulmonary vasculature, granular shadows in the lower areas of both lungs, and increased density of the right middle lung area. These findings suggested failure of the left side of the heart with pneumonia. A 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) confirmed normal sinus rhythm with inverted T waves in leads II, III, aVF, and V 3 through V 6 . He recovered rapidly with antibiotics and standard therapy for heart failure. Transthoracic 2-dimensional echocardiography showed diffuse hypertrophy of the mid to apical left ventricular walls ( and Movie I in the online-only Data Supplement). Doppler echocardiography revealed multiple areas of mosaic color flow within the anterior, lateral, and apical myocardium connected to the left ventricular cavity, with a peak flow speed of 0.8 to 0.9 m/s in the diastolic phase ( and Movie II in the online-only Data Supplement). Enlarged left and right coronary arteries and rapid diastolic flow with a peak speed of 1.5 m/s in the left anterior descending artery were also identified. A markedly enlarged, tortuous coronary artery with multiple coronary artery–left ventricular fistulae was visible on cardiac computed tomography examination . Coronary computed tomography angiography, diastolic-phase imaging, showed a 2-layer left ventricular myocardium mimicking LVNC, with a maximal ratio of noncompacted to compacted myocardium of 2.2 ( and 3C). Coronary angiography confirmed multiple fistulae between the left and right coronary arteries and the left ventricle ( and 4B). Left ventricular angiography revealed a spade-shaped cavity indicative of apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Cine magnetic resonance images showed small fine trabeculae extending from the lower base to the apical anterior, lateral, and inferior endocardium in the diastolic phase. In the systolic phase, thickening of both layers of the myocardium (mimicking compacted and noncompacted myocardium) was present (Movies III and IV in the online-only Data Supplement).
