This case has been previously reported and only a summary is included here for completeness . A 19-year-old gravida 1 para 0010 woman presented for evaluation of persistent vaginal bleeding 3 months following a therapeutic abortion. A 1.9 cm AVM was diagnosed. Trials of Tranexamic acid (Cyklokapron, Pfizer, New York, NY, USA), oral contraceptives and a Foley catheter inserted and inflated in the uterus to tamponade bleeding failed on two occasions. She received a blood transfusion and hysterectomy was considered. The patient was consented for UAE. Contrast injection demonstrated a 2.5 cm AVM. Embospheres (500–700 mm) (Biosphere Medical, Rockland, MA, USA) and Gelfoam pledgets were used to embolize the right uterine artery. Repeat angiography showed stasis of the AVM. Within 1 month of embolization the patient had a regular menstrual period and spontaneously conceived. She was induced at 39 weeks gestational age, and delivered a healthy female infant weighing 2 954 g with Apgar scores of 9 and 9 at 1 and 5 min, respectively. The estimated blood loss was ,500 ml. The placenta was delivered intact without complications and the pathology was normal. A 32-year-old gravida 3 para 0201 woman was evaluated for HMB following preterm delivery at 23 weeks. Her obstetrical history included a remote term vaginal delivery followed by two subsequent preterm deliveries at 23 weeks, the first of which required a Dilation and Curettage (D&C) for retained placenta. A cervical cerclage had been placed in her third pregnancy but she developed chorioamnionitis and pre-term, premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) followed shortly by delivery and postpartum hemorrhage. She subsequently had several episodes of acute heavy bleeding requiring transfusion. An AVM was diagnosed ( : case 2) and, as she wished to preserve fertility, she consented for an UAE. Multiple arteriograms confirmed the AVM fed by both uterine arteries. Embolization was with two 5.0 mm coils placed in each of the uterine arteries. Post-embolization arteriograms demonstrated stasis of the AVM. On post-operative day 1, a Doppler ultrasound displayed only partial obstruction of the AVM. She was given Depot-luprolide acetate (Abbott Canada, Saint-Laurent, Québec, Canada) injection 11.25 mg i.m. × 1 and also started on Letrozole (Novaris Oncology, East Hanover, NJ, USA) 2.5 mg orally daily for 5 days prior to discharge. She returned 2 days later to the emergency room with profuse bleeding, and required a transfusion. Her bleeding settled 2 weeks later. At 1 year, her bleeding was normalized and she conceived spontaneously. She had a cerclage placed at 12 weeks gestation. She developed PPROM at 33 weeks, but delivered a healthy baby at 34 weeks without complications; Apgars of 9 and 9 at 1 and 5 min, respectively. The estimated blood loss was ,500 ml. No abnormal placental pathology was noted.
A 30-year-old gravida 1 para 0010 woman had a spontaneous abortion treated with misoprostol at 13 weeks gestational age and developed HMB 6 weeks later. She was diagnosed with a 3.7 cm AVM (
: case 3,
), as well as a uterine septum. She was treated with monthly doses of i.m. Depot-Luprolide acetate (3.75 mg) for the next An 18-year-old Gravida 2 Para 0110 woman developed significant postpartum hemorrhage and ongoing bleeding for 8 weeks following a stillbirth delivery at 22 weeks gestation. Her previous pregnancy was a first trimester termination 1 year previously. A 3.8 cm AVM was diagnosed ( : case 4A/B). The patient was consented for UAE. There was abnormal vascular 'blush' on injection of both uterine arteries and evidence of arterio-venous shunting to the right internal iliac veins from the left uterine artery. Embolization was with gelfoam slurry to both uterine arteries. Post-embolization arteriogram revealed complete stasis to both uterine arteries and the AVM.
The patient was discharged in stable condition. At 6 weeks, she had no bleeding but ultrasound showed persistent arteries along the previous AV bed. A repeat embolization procedure was performed with a similar technique as described above; however, the embolization material was PVA particles (350–500 mm) and gelfoam slurry until stasis. The left uterine artery could not be catheterized and therefore was not embolized. On follow-up 6 weeks later, she had no significant pain or bleeding and there was no evidence of the AVM. Approximately 2 1/2 years following her first embolization procedure, she achieved a spontaneous pregnancy. She was induced at 36 + 6 weeks because of intrauterine growth restriction and abnormal umbilical artery dopplers (.95%). The birthweight was 1870 g, and Apgars were 9 and 9 at 1 and 5 min,respectively. The estimated blood loss was ,500 ml. The placenta pathology noted mature placenta with intervillous thrombi.
A 33-year-old gravida 3 para 2012 woman presented 4 years after her last vaginal delivery with HMB. An LNG-IUS device was inserted 1 year prior by her family doctor. She continued to have heavy and prolonged periods and received a blood transfusion. She had a 2.8 cm AVM diagnosed. The I LNG-IUS device was removed to attempt to conceive, which she did but miscarried at 6 weeks and was treated with misoprostol. Her HMB persisted and her AVM was still active ( : case 5A). She was consented for UAE.Contrast injection revealed a large tangle of abnormal vessels originating from both uterine arteries. Multiple 6 and 4 mm vascular coils were used to embolize the mass followed by Gelfoam slurry. Catheterization of the right ovarian artery revealed a large tortuous ovarian artery extending into the right pelvis and feeding a significant tangle of vessels in the pelvis and uterus. Unfortunately, due to lack of consent for ovarian artery embolization, the procedure was stopped. A repeat UAE attempt 1 month later was not successful due to the tortuosity of the vessel feeding the pelvic AVM, which measured (3.2 cm) ( : case 5B). Her flow was reduced and she conceived spontaneously 3 months later. She delivered vaginally a healthy, vigorous male infant at 38 + 3 weeks gestation. The birthweight was 2780 g. The Apgar scores were 9 and 9 at 1 and 5 min, respectively. The estimated blood loss was ,500 ml. The placenta was normal appearing but unfortunately it was not sent for pathologic evaluation.
