We report a case of a 22-year-old Nigerian man of Yoruba ethnicity who presented himself for electrocardiographic screening as a pre-admission medical test. He had a standard 12-lead ECG which revealed uncommon features: inversion of P waves (atrial depolarization) in leads I, aVL and aVR; dominant S waves in leads I, V1 to V6 with reversed R wave progression in chest leads; low voltage QRS axis in V4 to V6; extreme QRS axis; flattened T waves (ventricular repolarization) in V4 to V6 and aVR; and inverted T waves in lead I and aVL . An ECG diagnosis of dextrocardia was made; the differential diagnosis considered was right ventricular hypertrophy. The ECG electrodes were then placed in reverse order (mirror image position) on his body, which produced a normal standard 12-lead ECG pattern of a young adult. This confirmed dextrocardia with mirror image atrial arrangement . On further evaluation, he revealed a 5-year history of recurrent abdominal pain and a 3-week history of catarrh, fever, cough, exercise intolerance and progressive weight loss. There was no history of chest pain, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, palpitation or body swelling. He had no history of contact with someone with a chronic cough. There was a positive history of twins (twice) in his nuclear family. A physical examination revealed a slim young man not in obvious respiratory distress; he was not cyanosed, pale or febrile. He had neither finger clubbing nor pedal edema. A cardiovascular examination showed a pulse rate of 70 beats per minute, blood pressure of 119/62mmHg, visible cardiac impulse at right precordium, apex beat was located at his fifth right intercostal space midclavicular line, and first and second heart sounds were heard. A chest X-ray (posterior anterior view) including upper abdomen showed dextrocardia, with the cardiac apex pointing to the right. His aortic arch was located on the right. His stomach bubble was located below his right hemidiaphragm. His hepatic opacity was located below his left hemidiaphragm. His trachea was slightly deviated to the left. The findings in the lung fields were not remarkable . An abdominopelvic ultrasonography showed that his liver was located on the left side; it measured 14.5cm in span. The liver margin was smooth and the intrahepatic A resting standard 12-lead electrocardiogram of a 22-year-old Nigerian man. He had a heart rate of 73 beats per minute, inversion of P waves in leads I, aVL and aVR, dominant S waves in leads I and V1 to V6, reversed R wave progression in chest leads, low voltage QRS axis in V4 to V6, extreme QRS axis, flattened T waves in V4 to V6 and aVR and inverted T waves in lead I and aVL ducts and vascular channels were preserved. The gallbladder was seen in its inferior border. His spleen was located in the right hypochondrium; it was preserved sonographically. His stomach was on the right and his duodenum was located on the left. His two kidneys were seen in the renal beds bilaterally. His abdominal aorta was on the right while his inferior vena cava was located on the left. His urinary bladder was centrally placed and an assessment of situs inversus was made ultrasonographically. Overall, the diagnosis of dextrocardia with situs inversus to exclude Kartagener syndrome was made. Sputum microscopy, culture and sensitivity (MCS), sputum for acid-fast bacilli, chest CT scan and echocardiography were requested. He was placed on a combination of amoxycillin and azithromycin pending the result of his sputum tests. His sputum MCS showed Klebsiella species sensitive to cefuroxime. The sputum acid-fast bacilli test was negative. He was scheduled for echocardiography to determine cardiac structure and function; he was also scheduled for a chest CT. However, he had financial challenges which delayed completion of the investigations. Following completion of the initial antibiotics dosages, he was placed on cefuroxime and he became symptom free within 2 weeks of treatment.
