A 13-year-old boy was admitted to our hospital in emergency with massive hemoptysis. He had no history of any respiratory disorders or tobacco use. One week before admission, he coughed up approximately 500 ml of fresh blood and was admitted to another hospital. Chest CT scan showed exudative lesion, consolidation and atelectasis of right lower lobe . He was immediately treated with Pituitrin and coagulation factors, and given red cell suspension and plasma. Hemoptysis was controlled temporarily. In order to find the cause of hemoptysis, he was transferred into our hospital for further diagnosis and treatment. Bronchoscopic examination showed two non-pulsating polypoid nodules of approximately 3-6 mm which are located at the carina between the external and posterior basal segment of the right lower lobe. The nodules were elevated about 1.5 mm above the surface and the covering mucosa appeared smooth . Because of our suspicion of Dieulafoy's disease of the bronchus, the endoscopist was refrained from performing biopsy and ordered endobronchial ultrasonography. Unfortunately, the ultrasound probe could not reach the lesion. A CT angiography of bronchial artery was performed and identified a right bronchial artery arising from the anterior side of the thoracic aorta at T5 level ( , 1C). The tortuous, dilated and elongated branches of the bronchial arterycoiled around right middle and lower bronchus. Bronchial artery angiography suggested a distal right branch of this bronchial artery was dilated and tortuous. Since this branch vessel was considered to be the cause of hemoptysis, arterial embolization was performed successfully . Three months after first admission, the patient was readmitted to our hospital in emergency with recurrent massive hemoptysis. Thoracotomy was performed. Obvious hematocele in the middle and lower lobe of right lung, especially in the middle lobe, was observed during thoracotomy. However intra-operative bronchoscopy failed clarifying the exact origin of hemorrhage. Consequently, a bilobectomy (the right middle and lower lobe) was successfully performed. Macroscopic examination showed hemorrhage of the right middle and lower lobe . The lung parenchyma showed areas of hemorrhage and the bronchial lumens were filled with blood clots. Histologically, fresh bleeding and blood clots were seen in the bronchi, bronchioles and alveoli. Small vessels with diverse thickness opened directly into bronchial lumens ( and D). After surgery, hemoptysis did not recur in the follow-up period of 5 months.
