A 21-year-old female presented with a 2.7×4.0×3.0-cm (21mm³) ruptured AVM in the right mesial fronto-callosal region. Embolization and/or radiosurgery was proposed. She preferred radiosurgery. The AVM was treated with CyberKnife® SRS with a prescription dose of 10 Gy to the 78 % isodose . The minimal dose was 9.1 Gy, maximal dose 12.8 Gy, conformity index 1.52, and homogeneity index 1.28; coverage at the prescription dose was 96.29 %. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans 2 years later showed persistent flow in the AVM and no other pathology . She was lost to follow-up until she presented, 6 years after SRS, with behavior changes, apathy, disequilibrium, recent urinary incontinence, and memory disturbances. MRI showed the known unchanged AVM and a right subcortical frontal lesion behind and above it, which enhanced heterogeneously after contrast administration, as well as bifrontal edema and callosal infiltration. The perfusion MRI showed increased perfusion, more consistent with high-grade glioma . The lesion's center was within the irradiated region. 2 T2-weighted axial magnetic resonance imaging scan at 2 years after SRS of the previous SRS, having received an estimated radiation dose of 4 Gy. Maximal debulking was performed. Pathological examination noted a hypercellular tumor showing astrocytic tumor cells with moderate pleomorphism in a fibrillary background. There was an increased number of vessels, some of them with endothelial proliferation. Areas of tumor necrosis surrounded by perinecrotic pseudopalisades were also present. Numerous mitotic figures were seen. Using the Ventana BenchMark XT system for the immunostains, the cells were GFAP focally positive, P53 positive in 40–50 % of cells, IDH1 negative, SYN positive, EGFR negative, and Ki67 positive in 95– 100 % of cells. The appearances were those of GBM, WHO grade IV, with neuronal differentiation . The patient was treated adjuvantly with concurrent temozolomide and radiotherapy.
The next of kin has consented to the submission of the case report for submission to the journal.
