A healthy 37-year-old man attended an exercise test for fitness evaluation in 2001. Baseline ECG revealed features characteristic of the type 1 Brugada phenotype and QTC and PR at the upper normal limit, 440 and 200 ms, respectively . There was no personal history of syncope or palpitation and no family history of unexpected cardiac death. The patient was taking no regular medications. A transthoracic echocardiogram confirmed a structurally normal heart. He underwent an electrophysiology study. The baseline sinus cycle length was 857 ms with a normal atrial-His interval and a mildly prolonged His-ventricular interval of 60 ms. Programmed ventricular stimulation was performed from the right ventricular apex and sustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia was easily inducible with a single extra stimuli at coupling intervals of 340 ms . Due to the spontaneous type 1 pattern and the abnormal electrophysiological testing results, the patient underwent successful implantation of a single-chamber St. Jude ICD for primary prevention. No events were recorded during thefunction . Biophysical studies demonstrated that the mutant channels displayed enhancement of both closedstate inactivation and slow inactivation, which were thought to sensitize carriers to the BrS phenotype in addition to the persistent sodium current, a hallmark of LQT3 . The overlap between the LQT3 and BrS phenotype has also been reported in other SCN5A mutations, such as ΔKPQ, E1784K and ΔK1500 . Priori et al.
showed additional evidence for the elusive link between these two clinical syndromes by the fact that the class ICUCLAsodium channel blocker flecainide induced ECG changes consistent with BrS in 6 out of 13 patients with LQT3. The D1790G mutation was first reported by in all patients of the extended LQT3 family. Unlike previously described LQT3 mutations of SCN5A, this mutation does not promote a sustained inward sodium current, but rather causes a negative shift in steadystate inactivation . Baroudia et al.
found a persistent small inward sodium current of about 6% when D1790G mutant channels were expressed in the tsA201 human cell line. A reduction in sodium channel expression was not found in tsA201 cells that expressed the D1790G mutation . An approximate 20-mV shift of the steady-state inactivation curve was found in both the insD1795 and D1790G mutations . That shift diminished sodium currents and this could contribute to the Brugada phenotype. Liu et al.
reported the clinical course of 35 patients with D1970G mutation. No conduction abnormalities were reported. Episodes of sinus arrest have been documented by Holter recordings in 3 mutation carriers . The fact that flecainide therapy was discontinued in 3 patients out of 11 after a new onset of the Brugada-type pattern on the electrocardiogram supports our findings relating to the D1970G mutation . Although this mutation has not been associated with a reduction of sodium channel expression, we hypothesize that sodium currents are further diminished due to the 20-mV shift of the steady-state inactivation curve. In fact, this mutation accelerates the onset of inactivation and this could contribute to the Brugada phenotype. This hypothesis remains to be proven by biophysical studies and by identification of genetic modifiers and other different factors that may contribute to disease expressivity . Our findings reveal that a single SCN5A mutation may evoke multiple cardiac arrhythmia syndromes by influencing diverse components of the sodium channel gating function. This case is important as it allows for a better understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms of BrS. Moreover, this observation raises concern about the safety of class IC drug therapy in LQT3 patients and quinidine therapy in Brugada patients, and emphasizes the importance of a thorough clinical and genetic evaluation.
