Clinical investigations and genetic analyses were performed according to the guidelines in the Declaration of Helsinki and approved by the ethical committee of Uppsala University and Gothenburg University, Sweden.
Informed consent was obtained from all patients and specific permission was given for photographs.
This is a 28-year-old woman, who got the clinical diagnosis of Noonan syndrome (NS) at the age of 4 years because of growth retardation, cardiomyopathy and facial features. She is the only child of non-related parents. The father (Case 2) has facial features of NS, but few additional clinical symptoms. She was born to a mother with diabetes during pregnancy with a birth weight of 4.7 kg (+3 SDS), a length of 52 cm (+1 SDS) and a head circumference of +2 SDS. She also had a large left ventricle, and a systolic murmur, but this disappeared at the age of six years. Postnatally, her growth decelerated and she had feeding difficulties. At 6.5 years of age, her height was 104 cm (−2 SDS) and her weight 18.5 kg (−2 SDS).She had low endogenous growth hormone (GH) secretion defined as " partial GH deficiency " , and started GH therapy within a formal clinical trial (NovoNordisk) from 6.5 years of age. She was treated with GH (dose of 66 μg/kg/day) and responded exceptionally well and treatment was discontinued after two years. However, at 10 years of age, she had her first pubertal signs and GH-treatment was started again using a standard dose of 33 μg/kg/day. At 12.3 years of age, she had menarche. The GH-treatment continued until final height (FH) was reached at the age of 14 years. Her FH is 164.5 cm (−0.45 SDS) and weight of 60 kg (+0.3 SDS). Her psychomotor development is normal, but she has slight problems of attention deficit. She attended regular school and works as an assistant nurse. At the age of 24 years, she has the following features of NS : a large skull (62 cm) with a broad forehead, hypertelorism, down slanted palpebral fissures, bilateral ptosis (especially of her left eye), short and broad neck with a low hairline, and low-set ears with broad helices. Her hair is normal. She has two large Café-au-lait spots on her back and >50 freckles (lentigines) all over her body, especially on her back  and arms . This is the 62-year-old father of Case 1. He was clinically diagnosed after Case 1 was diagnosed. He has facial features of NS, but few additional clinical symptoms. Sensorineural hearing impairment was present at birth. His growth pattern was normal, but he had a delayed puberty. His FH is 175.0 cm (−0.4 SDS) and weight 75 kg (±0 SDS). The intellectual development was normal. He followed normal school and university education and worked as a librarian until the age of 55 years, when he had to retire because of tinnitus. At the age of 62 years, he has the following features of NS ( –c): slight macrocephaly (61 cm, +2 SDS), bilateral ptosis, hypertelorism and down-slanting palpebral fissures. Healso has curly hair and lentigines on his back. He had a cardiac murmur in childhood that disappeared spontaneously.
