A 44-year-old man with a past medical history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, mitral valve regurgitation, NYHA Class II/III heart failure, and secondary pulmonary hypertension, presented to the urological clinic with a history of dysuria and right lumbo-abdominal pain for several days. Abdominal ultrasound examination revealed an incidental absent left kidney in the lumbar region. It was replaced by a bulky renal parenchymal mass in the right lumbar region. To achieve a complete imagistic diagnosis, the patient was evaluated with multidetector computed tomographic (MDCT) angiography (64-slice MDCT system; SOMATOM Sensation, Siemens Medical Solutions, Forchheim, Germany) at Neuromed Diagnostic Imaging Centre (Timisoara, Romania). The kidney, with a height of 14.7 cm, width of 8.9 cm and a thickness of 5.5 cm, is located in right paramedian plane, partly in the abdomen from the level of the middle third of the L1 vertebral body superiorly, and partly in the greater pelvis at the level of the sacroiliac joints inferiorly. The parenchymal mass made an angle of 65° to the vertical plane, opening posteriorly, and at an angle of 13° to the coronal plane, opening medially. The pyelographic phase confirmed the presence of a right lump kidney, formed by complete fusion of the two renal parenchymal masses, with the presence of two duplicated pelvicalyceal systems uniting at the pelvi-ureteric junction . Each pelvi-ureteric junction continued with one ureter, which entered the bladder in a normal relationship. Each renal parenchymal mass presented with two renal sinuses oriented above, and two parenchymal units situated around the each pelvicalyceal system [right upper unit (RUU), right lower unit (RLU), left upper unit (LUU), left lower unit (LLU)]. The two lower renal sinuses, became confluent distally. There was no other impairment or stones retention in the pelvicalyceal systems and in both ureters.The nephrographic phase images revealed a number of six renal arteries (from RA1 to RA6)  and two renal veins (RV1 and RV2) . The first four renal arteries (RA1 to RA4) originated from abdominal aorta (AA), from the level of upper third of L2 vertebral body, to upper third of L4 vertebral body; the fifth renal artery (RA5) originated from the lateral edge of the upper third of the right common iliac artery; the sixth renal artery (RA6) originated from the lateral edge of the proximal part of the right internal iliac artery, just below the right iliac bifurcation. The distal parts of both ureters pass in contact with the inferior poles of the RLU and LLU. The left ureter passes midline at the level of lower third of the S1 vertebral body. Examination of the vertebral column reveals the lumbalization of S1 vertebra. The bifurcation of the abdominal aorta was observed at the level of the intervertebral disc L2–L3. The MDCT angiography examination did not reveal any additional congenital anomaly.
