A 23-year-old unmarried man was admitted to the Department of thoracic surgery of Renji hospital (Shanghai, China) because of recurrent cough with purulent expectoration, which had occurred intermittently for the past ten years. During the past 3 years, the episode frequency was 3–4 times per year, and an increased frequency occurred over the past 6 months. He had seen a respiratory physician many times and was diagnosed with pneumonia due to bronchiectasis. Additionally, he had received several courses of intravenous antibiotic therapy over the past 6 months, however, frequent relapse occurred after antibiotic therapy. He had no fever, dyspnea and hemoptysis. Further questioning revealed that the patient used to suffer from sinusitis since his teenage years, presenting symptoms including repeated nasal congestion and nasal discharge. The patient acknowledged that he had been diagnosed with dextrocardia in childhood. He had no brothers or sisters, and his parents were healthy. Yellowish discharge could be observed in the nasal cavity without obvious press-pain on paranasal sinus areas. The thoracic wall had no deformities. Chest auscultation revealed crepitations in the left infrascapular region and normal heart sounds on the right side. The apex beat was palpable over the fifth intercostal space on the right side of chest. The other physical and systemic examinations were normal. Hemogram revealed a total leukocyte count of 11.0 × 10 9 /L (normal range: 3.97–9.15 × 10 9 /L), a neutrophil percentage of 78.5% (normal range: 50–70%), and a hemoglobin of 150 g/L (normal range: 131–172 g/L). Liver functions and renal functions were normal, and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 40 mm/H. Sputum smear examination for Mycobacterium tuberculosiswas negative, and the blood tuberculosis antibody was also negative. Abdominal ultrasound revealed complete situs inversus and the organs were normal. Chest computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a bronchiectasic appearance in the local lung tissue of the left middle lobe  and dextrocardia . His admission diagnosis included pulmonary infection and bronchiectasis of the left middle lobe, situs inversus, and possible KS. Paranasal sinus CT scan revealed that his nasal mucosa obviously thickened, besides, his left maxillary sinus and ethmoidal sinus mucosa swelled obviously . The Kartagener triad of symptoms was observed in this patient, which confirmed the diagnosis of KS. His primary problem was recurrent pneumonia due to bronchiectasis, which had to be resolved effectively. After careful examination of the chest CT, we concluded that the bronchiectasic lung was destroyed and had clear boundaries. Regarding his situs inversus, the left lung was clearly composed of three lobes, with lesion in the left middle lobe. There was no bronchiectasic signs in the upper or lower left lobe or in the right lung. Thus, we concluded that the damaged left middle lobe was the source of repeat pulmonary infections. Altogether, these results suggested that this lobe had to be resected, as the infections would otherwise not be curable. After three days of antibiotic treatment (2 g cefotiam through an intravenous drip), left thoracotomy was performed via left posterolateral incision under the condition of general anesthesia. The fifth intercostal muscles were incised layer by layer, and sixth rib was cut off andsuperior vein cava could be exposed in the left thoracic cavity, confirming situs inversus. The middle lobe was collapsed and consolidated , although the upper and lower lobes seemed normal and the fissures had completely developed. Before the left middle lobe was removed, the middle lobe branch of the pulmonary artery and vein, and the bronchus of the middle lobe were excised and sutured individually with staples (Covidien, USA). After lobe was resected, wound surface was stanched and the chest was washed with physiological saline water for 3 times. The flushing fluid was removed and lung wound surface was sutured with 3-0 Prolene. Rib incision was sutured with No. 10 silk; muscle layers were sutured with 2-0 Johnson ETHICON Vicryl; skin was sutured with 3-0 Johnson ETHICON Vicryl. In addition, a 28F chest tube was placed post-operatively and was removed 3 days later. The patient-controlled intravenous analgesia (PCIA) with sufentanil 0.2 mg combined with granisetron 3 mg was provided for pain relief for 48 h. The operation was completed without complication. The final pathology examination  revealed the occurrence of bronchiectasis and hyperemia in this lobe, as well as the proliferation oflymphocytes and plasmocytes around the bronchus. The post-operative antibiotic therapy (2 g cefotiam through an intravenous drip) lasted 7 days, and chest CT indicated left lung recovered well without pulmonary infection. On postoperative day 8, the patient was discharged. Regular follow-up was conducted by the ear-nose-throat (ENT) specialist and thoracic surgeons. Mucolytics, such as myrtol standardized capsules (Pohl-Boskamp GmbH & Co. KG, Germany; 0.3 g three times a day), was taken to treat his remaining sinusitis, as administered by the ENT doctors. After 6 months of follow-up, his symptoms of cough and purulent sputum were relieved, and his nasal congestion and discharge were alleviated. Follow-up chest Xrays confirmed no further issues .
