A 1-week old female infant was admitted to the peripheral children's hospital with tachydyspnoea and peripheral cyanosis after cardiopulmonary resuscitation due to aspiration. An initial echocardiography showed signs of congestive heart failure and patent ductus arteriosus with possible aortic coarctation. Anti-congestive and prostaglandin therapy were initiated. Following stabilization, the baby was referred to our institution. The electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed significant ST elevation in the anterior and lateral leads. Echocardiography ( and B) identified an anatomy consistent with Shone's complex. The parachute mitral valve was hypoplastic with mild stenosis (diameter 7.5 mm, mean gradient of 4.2 mmHg, z-score of –2.9), dysplastic aortic valve with severe stenosis (diameter of 4.5 mm, mean gradient of 14.2 mmHg, z-score of –3.8), mildly hypoplastic aortic arch with periductal aortic coarctation. The left ventricle was small compared with the right ventricle, with reduced left ventricular function (EF 34%). The coronary arteries were not examined in detail, but were thought to be normal. Due to the possible existence of an aberrant subclavian artery, cardiac catheterization was performed to confirm the exact aortic arch anatomy. But during the intervention the orifice of the left coronary artery (LCA) at the aortic sinus was not identified. Subsequent pulmonary angiography confirmed the diagnosis of ALCAPA ( probably from the main pulmonary artery) ( and D). Immediate surgery was performed through a median sternotomy. Aortic and bicaval cannulation was performed and a cardiopulmonary bypass was established. The right and left pulmonary arteries were mobilized and the LCA was identified as originating not from the pulmonary trunk, but from the RPA. The right coronary arterial orifice was in the normal location. Both branches of the pulmonary artery were distally snared to avoid coronary steal and myocardial ischaemia, and the baby was cooled to 17°C. On ECG, a reduction in ST elevation was observed. During this time, the aortic arch was mobilized and the supra-aortic vessels were snared. Prostaglandin infusion was ceased. In deep hypothermic circulatory arrest, the coarctation was resected and the complete aortic arch was enlarged with an autologous pericardial patch . After applying an aortic cross-clamp, blood cardioplegia was delivered. The main pulmonary artery was transected for the inspection of the RPA from inside and outside. Inspection of the pulmonary artery revealed that the LCA originated from the distal part of the RPA and descended vertically along the aorta . A coronary button of the LCA was excised from the RPA. An additional dose of cardioplegia was given directly in the mobilized LCA. The anomalous coronary artery was reimplanted to the posterior wall of the ascending aorta,
). The defect in the pulmonary artery was reconstructed with an autologous pericardial patch. In addition, the aortic valve was inspected, and a functional bicuspid, dysplastic valve with stenosis of the annulus was found . An aortic valvulotomy was then carefully performed. Finally, the aorta and main pulmonary artery were re-anastomosed. Weaning from the bypass was performed without any problems, and no changes in ECG were encountered. The patient was extubated on postoperative day 2. The postoperative echocardiography confirmed antegrade flow in both left and right coronary arteries and no re-coarctation stenosis ( and F). The baby was discharged from the hospital in good physical condition. The follow-up echocardiogram after 3 months showed recovery of left ventricular function (EF 67%).
