Case 1 A 26-year-old woman presented with motor seizures. Brain MRI revealed an AVM located in the left frontal operculum, extending until the head of the caudate nucleus with superficial venous drainage . A digital subtraction angiogram revealed an AVM supplied by lenticulostriate and prerolandic arteries ( and C). In initial treatment session was scheduled to exclude the deep supply. A microcatheter (Marathon) was advanced over a wire (Mirage 0.008) into a lenticulostriate feeder . After multiple unsuccessful attempts to catheterize the feeder, a compliant balloon (Scepter C, 4 × 20 mm) was navigated into the left MCA and positioned immediately beyond the origin of the lenticulostriate arteries . The balloon was then inflated, and the microcatheter was advanced over the microwire with gentle forward pressure until close to the nidus. The microwire was removed and the balloon was deflated. Fluoroscopy confirmed stability of the microcatheter , and embolization was theninitiated with Onyx (eV3/Covidien). Three months later, the patient underwent a second treatment session via the arterial approach, resulting in total exclusion of the nidus. Follow-up angiography confirmed anatomical cure of the lesion ( and H).
Case 2 An otherwise healthy 41-year-old man presented with a left frontal hematoma 3 months before treatment. MRI revealed an AVM in the left frontal lobe . Digital subtraction angiography revealed a large left frontal AVM supplied by branches arising from the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) and MCA with a single cortical draining vein. Given the large size of the nidus and the multiplicity of feeders, the treatment was scheduled in 3 sessions. The first 2 sessions were performed to exclude the superficial supply. The third session was planned to occlude deep portion of the AVM. Selective injection of the left ICA demonstrated supply by branches from the ACA, especially frontopolar and anterior internal frontal arteries with recurrent configuration of the frontopolar artery ( and C). Multiple attempts to catheterize the branch failed to achieve access to the AVM. A remodeling balloon (Scepter C, 4 × 20 mm) was inflated in the second segment of the ACA immediately distal to the origin of the frontopolar artery, and the microcatheter (Marathon 1.5F) was advanced over a guidewire (Mirage 0.008) into the frontopolar artery as close as possible to the nidus . The wire was removed and the balloon was deflated. Fluoroscopy confirmed stability of the microcatheter , and embolization was performed with Onyx. Followup angiography confirmed anatomical cure of the lesion .
