A 64-year-old man from the Czech Republic with a history of hypertension was first examined by a cardiologist for intermittent cough, mild dyspnoea on exertion and * Correspondence: cernamo@fnplzen.cz 1 Clinic of Surgery, Plzeň Teaching Hospital and Charles University Medical Faculty, Alej Svobody 80, 304 60, Plzeň – Lochotín, Czech Republic Full list of author information is available at the end of the article JOURNAL OF MEDICAL CASE REPORTS non-constant hoarseness. He underwent an X-ray examination, which inadvertently revealed deviation of his trachea 10mm to the right. An examination specifically targeting his TG revealed the presence of goitre, with significant predominance of the left lobe. He was referred for specialist examination by an endocrinologist who performed an ultrasound (USG) of his neck. The right lobe of his TG was 20×21×49mm in size with normal findings and the left lobe of 80×70×55mm was described as hypoechogenic, lobulated, hypervascularised with propagation retrosternally. It included several cystic lesions and a vascular plexus located in its lower section with the diameter of its arteries reaching up to 12mm. No cervical lymphadenopathy was present. In order to further clarify these findings, the patient underwent multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) of his neck focusing on the TG. This described the left lobe as reaching retrosternally, significantly deforming and compressing the trachea with a large nodule located at its inferior pole, displacing the arteries of the aortic arch, with which it was in close contact . The MDCT findings did not rule out the possibility of an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) originating from the principal arterial trunks of the aortic arch and left subclavian or brachiocephalic veins. The presence of multiple venous plexuses up to 20mm in width was described at the lower edge of the nodule in the upper mediastinum. According to the computed tomography (CT), the right lobe demonstrated no pathological findings; cervical lymphadenopathy was present but the lymph nodes were of benign appearance. The laboratory values of TG hormones were within physiological range. The endocrinologist referred the patient to the Clinic of Surgery for surgical treatment. The clinical presentation predominantly involved an enlarged TG left lobe with the presence of an audible murmur in this region on auscultation. In view of the suspected AVM and thus the high risk of perioperative serious, poorly manageable bleeding in the area of his upper mediastinum, the patient underwent a radio-interventional procedure via his right common femoral artery, which uncovered the presence of two massive arteries supplying the lesion, branching from the truncus thyrocervicalis and superior thyroid artery on the left . Both arteries supplying the lesion were embolised selectively using Histoacryl® (B Braun Melsungen AG, Melsungen, Germany; Figures 3 and 4). The procedure was totally uncomplicated. Four days later, he underwent surgery; lobectomy of his TG left lobe was performed via a partial sternotomy . In concurrence with the imaging methods, the nodule located in the lower pole of the left lobe extended to his aortic arch. It was surrounded by multiple vascular plexuses, which were ligated during the lobectomy. Following the prior embolisation, several of the vessels were already thrombosed, which significantly reduced any perioperative bleeding and technically facilitated orientation within the operating field. Nonetheless, the nodule itself as well as the whole TG lobe was very tough and fibrous and both adhered firmly to his trachea and short neck muscles. In the given terrain, it was impossible to identify the course of the recurrent laryngeal nerve and thus surgery Computed tomography of the neck-coronal. Bulky left thyroid gland lobe displacing the branching arteries of the aortic arch and deviating the trachea to the right.proceeded closely along the TG capsule. Based on the agreement signed by the patient before the operation, lobectomy of the left lobe was performed and the right lobe was preserved. The latter was of normal appearance and consistence. If a malignancy had been described in the definitive histopathological findings, we would have subsequently performed lobectomy on the right. The perioperative blood loss was up to 200mL. There were no complications during the postoperative course. Phonation and respiration were normal from the very beginning. The laboratory values of calcium and phosphate were satisfactory. The blood loss was minimal and he did not require any transfusions. He was discharged home on the 7th postoperative day. He came in for his first check-up after 10 days and was found to be completely well, without any complaints. The wound had healed by primary intention and he was referred for further follow-up back to the treating endocrinologist. One month after surgery, substitution maintenance therapy was started to prevent compensatory hypertrophy of the contralateral lobe. The histological examination showed a highly unusual lesion consisting of an AVM with obturation of certain arteries following embolisation: partially necrotised TG tissue with dystrophic calcifications and partially viable parenchyma with microfollicles from thyrocytes (Figures 6, 7 and 8). Despite the great similarity with certain tumours (especially papillary carcinoma) or metastasis of clear cell renal carcinoma, the pathologist concluded that this was a case of benign nodular hyperplasia of the TG parenchyma within the terrain of AVM.
I write the following to provide assistance to the case report written about my operation. I have no medical knowledge or background so I only write from my own perspective and experience. I began to have nonspecific symptoms as a cough, mild dyspnoea on exertion and non-constant hoarseness a half year ago. I was afraid of having a problem with my heart or lungs, so I decided to visit a cardiologist. The examination showed that my heart is healthy but the cause of my symptoms is deviation of trachea to the right side that was shown on X-ray. I was quickly sent to CT that revealed the possibility of AVM of the TG but did not exclude malignant disease. The same week I underwent the CTAG that gave a more precise finding and showed the main arteries supplying the AVM. The surgeons described the findings to me clearly and recommended the operation, because the findings could be danger by bleeding. They suggested the best way would be cooperation with a radio-invasive procedure which would close the main arteries before surgery and the operation will be for me safer. In 1 month I was received at the hospital, underwent selective intraarterial embolisation and 4 days later I was operated. After both proceuures I felt very well, I was very satisfied and surprised with non-problematic postoperative course. I was discharged home on 7th day after surgery. The best report I got 2 weeks after operation. It was the result of histological finding that revealed the benign disease. I had no problem with the healing of the wound; nowadays I have a nice scar. These days I go regularly to my endocrinologist, I began to take levothyroxine and my last visit was with ultrasonography of the rest of my TG and is OK. Now I admire all the specialists who shared in my treatment. They planned the procedures excellently so as to have no complications and my life could be the same as before surgery.
