History and Examination A 15-day-old baby girl had a persistent scalp mass, which on ultrasound was shown to be a midline highflow vascular lesion beneath the posterior fontanelle. An MRI study of this lesion demonstrated a DSM with a large partially thrombosed midline venous pouch (MVP) and marked dilation of the posterior one-third of the superior sagittal sinus (SSS), torcula, straight sinus, and the vein of Galen . Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) performed on Day 21 confirmed the presence of multiple high-flow fistulous and plexiform arteriovenous (AV) shunts to the DSM. The AV shunts to the SSS and upper two-thirds of the MVP were supplied by the middle meningeal arteries (MMAs). The AV shunts to the torcula and the lower one-third of the MVP were supplied by posterior meningeal branches of the vertebral artery (VA), occipital artery, and an artery of Davidoff and Schechter . There was no evidence for cortical venous reflux. At this time, the child was normal neurologically, had no evidence of cardiac failure, and weighed only 3.4 kg. Therefore treatment was deferred.Dural sinus malformations (DSMs) are rare congenital malformations that can be midline or lateral in location. Midline DSMs have been reported to have a worse prognosis than lateral DSMs and have traditionally been more difficult to manage. The authors report 2 unusual manifestations of midline DSMs and their management with percutaneous transfontanelle embolization. The first patient (Case 1) presented at 21 days of life with a large midline DSM and multiple highflow dural and pial arteriovenous shunts. The child developed congestive cardiac failure and venous congestion with intracranial hemorrhage and seizures within a few weeks. The second patient (Case 2) presented with a large midline DSM found on prenatal imaging that was determined to be a purely venous malformation on postnatal evaluation. This large malformation resulted in consumptive coagulopathy and apneic episodes from brainstem compression. The patient in Case 1 was treated initially with endovascular embolization and eventually with curative percutaneous-transfontanelle embolization. The patient in Case 2 was treated with percutaneous transfontanelle embolization in combination with posterior fossa decompression and cranial expansion surgery. http://thejns.org/doi/abs/10.3171/2014.12.PEDS145 Key words arteriovenous fistula; pediatric arteriovenous malformation; dural sinus malformation; percutaneous embolization; vascular disorders of the internal cerebral veins, cortical venous reflux, and small hemorrhages in the right putamen and thalamus. She had also developed early signs of high-output cardiac failure. The patient was discharged home following transarterial embolization of the DSM via MMA feeders on Days 42 and 48, performed by using both ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer (Onyx 34, Covidien) and N-butyl cyanoacrylate (NBCA) (Trufill, Cordis Endovascular), with an approximately 35% reduction in AV shunting. She returned on Day 62 with seizures, increased deep venous congestion, and small periventricular infarcts. Additional transarterial embolization was performed with Onyx, resulting in another 20% reduction in flow. This time she was discharged home in anticipation of eventual spontaneous thrombosis of the remainder of the lesion. The child returned on Day 79 with status epilepticus, a new left thalamic hemorrhage with intraventricular extension, and ventriculomegaly with worsened deep venous congestion. At this time, we determined that the DSM was unlikely to undergo spontaneous thrombosis and that transarterial endovascular embolization with Onyx alone was not likely to be curative as long as the MVP was patent and connected to the sinuses. This was due to the fact that during prior transarterial embolizations the Onyx had a tendency to prematurely penetrate into the MVP rather than the nidus of the DSM. This could have led to eventual penetration of Onyx into the SSS and torcula, with thrombosis of these structures. Transvenous embolization was also not attempted due to concerns about occlusion of the SSS and torcula. Occlusion of these sinuses is undesirable prior to onset of cavernous capture at 6 months of age. There were also limitations to transarterial and transvenous embolization imposed by concerns regarding radiation dose, contrast load, and neurotoxicity from dimethyl sulfoxide. We therefore decided on a combined percutaneous and endovascular approach to achieve complete elimination of the DSM. On Day 80, we percutaneously punctured the MVP under fluoroscopic guidance and placed a 4-Fr vascular sheath into the MVP. Injection of the sheath showed a 1.6-cm-wide midline venous channel between the MVP and SSS, with retrograde filling of the SSS and eventual contrast reflux into the superficial cortical veins. This channel was first obliterated using gel-coated coils deposited through an Echelon 10 microcatheter that was advanced through the sheath, and the upper two-thirds of the MVP was then filled with Onyx, which was also seen to flow retrograde from the MVP into the numerous arterial feeding vessels . This resulted in obliteration of the upper two-thirds of the MVP, reestablishment of normal drainage in the SSS, and elimination of cortical venous reflux. On Day 81, using a transarterial approach, we embolized the remaining large sections of the DSM nidus by using Onyx and NBCA. On Day 82, by percutaneously placing a micropuncture sheath in the lower one-third of the MVP and injecting Onyx 34 through an Echelon 10 microcatheter into this region, we obliterated the rest of the MVP and its feeders . Final diagnostic angiography with injections of the common carotid artery (CCA) and VA showed complete obliteration of the DSM. Outcome At 24-month follow-up, the child was neurologically normal and was meeting appropriate developmental milestones. Follow-up MRI showed significant reduction in the thrombosed MVP and no new AV shunts, and the SSS remained patent . There was no evidence of nephropathy or any short-term radiation injury.
History and Examination Prenatal ultrasound screening during the second trimester in a G1P0 mother revealed a female fetus with a large midline posterior intracranial cystic lesion. A subsequent prenatal uterine MRI study revealed a large midline DSM with thrombus in the expected location of the left transverse sinus, occupying approximately the posterior one-third of the cranial cavity. Serial prenatal MRI studies showed progressive enlargement of this DSM. Following delivery by cesarean section at 35 weeks gestational age, the child underwent an MRI and MR venography session, followed by a DSA study performed using umbilical arterial catheterization on Day 1 of life. On the MRI and MR venography studies, the posterior one-third of the SSS, the torcula, and the transverse sinuses were all included in the DSM and could not be distinctly visualized . The anterior two-thirds of
