The patient was a 13-month old female born with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS, severe mitral stenosis and a nearly-atretic aortic valve with a z-score of −5.8 and minimal antegrade flow), who initially underwent a hybrid stage 1 procedure ( patent ductus arteriosus stent, branch pulmonary artery (PA) banding and balloon atrial septostomy), followed by comprehensive stage 2 procedure (PA band removal, Damus–Kaye–Stansel (DKS) type aortic reconstruction, Glenn anastomosis and atrial septectomy) at 4 months of age. Following the DKS anastomosis, the length of the native ascending aorta was 1.7 cm. The diameter at the sinuses was 7.5 mm and at the sino-tubular junction 5 mm, both yielding a z-score of −3.5. Per institutional protocol, she was treated formass in the aortic root. Despite a slow hand contrast injection, additional thrombus dislodgement and embolization occurred, this time down the right coronary artery (Video 1). The embolus appeared to have undergone immediate lysis without blocking either the main or any of the branch vessels, as repeat contrast angiography showed grade 3 thrombolysis in myocardial infarction coronary flow. Once again, this was not accompanied by haemodynamic, ST-segment changes, or arrhythmias. Thrombolytic therapy was continued for additional 24 h in the intensive care unit. Her further hospitalization course was not favourable; Anticoagulation therapy was commenced, initially with heparin and later warfarin. Although she remained stable with this management and within therapeutic international normalized ratio (INR) ranges, serial echocardiograms showed recurrent thrombus progression in the native aortic root and worsening RV function, which was accompanied by a cerebrovascular embolic event.
Given this apparent lack of response to anticoagulation and the risk of further thromboembolic events, the valve was sawn closed ( –C). The patient survived the procedure, yet her ejection fraction remained low and she had persistent heart failure symptoms. She was subsequently listed for a heart transplantation and currently awaits on the transplant list.
