The index case (corresponding to patient C in Pires et al. ) is a 24 year-old female who is the third child of consanguineous parents (a 26 year-old mother and a 30 year-old father). The patient was born at term (39 weeks of gestation), by vaginal delivery, with a birth weight of 2450 g (5 th centile) and length of 47 cm (10 th centile). Apgar scores were 1 at the first minute and 10 at the fifth minute. The patient had a monozygotic twin sister affected by truncus arteriosus, who underwent heart surgery, but died at the age of 1 month. The family history revealed another three deceased siblings: the first was a girl who died at the age of 9 months with a possible heart disease; the second was a stillborn boy; the third was a girl who died at the age of 13 months with a diagnosis of pulmonary atresia and ventricular septal defect (VSD). The mother has a history of hyperthyroidism and hypertension; the father has rheumatoid arthritis; both have learning difficulties. Maternal grandparents and the paternal grandfather died of unspecified heart disease. At the age of 9 years, the patient was suspected of having a heart condition due to the presence of a heart murmur and failure to thrive. An echocardiogram showed an ostium secundum atrial septal defect (ASD), which required heart surgery. Facial dysmorphisms were perceived, suggesting DGS/VCFS . She had recurrent upper respiratory tract infections that required adenoidectomy at the age of 15. She also underwent otorhinolaryngology surgery, due to an infected auricular fistula, and received an otoplasty to correct a pinna deformity .Currently, the patient has mild developmental delay and learning difficulties, hyperdontia (supernumerary teeth; ), and dental cavities. Nonetheless, she is living an independent life and is currently married. In order to investigate the presence of 22q11.2 deletion, which is associated with DGS/VCFS, and other genomic alterations, we performed multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) and array comparative genomic hybridization (array-CGH), respectively . Both techniques detected a de novo duplication (1:2, one normal chromosome and a 22q11.2 duplication in the other) of 2.5 Mb (nucleotide positions 18,894,835 to 21,464,119) , supporting the diagnosis of 22q11.2 microduplication syndrome.
This patient, a 20 year-old female who corresponds to patient B in Pires et al.
, is the eighth child of a 42 year-old mother and a 43 year-old father; the latter presents mild intellectual disability and learning difficulties. She was born at 38 weeks of gestation by spontaneous vaginal delivery. The patient has seven normal siblings. At birth, she weighed 2950 g (5 th centile), her height was 46 cm (5 th centile), and head circumference was 34 cm (25 th centile). Apgar scores were 9 at the first minute and 10 at the fifth minute. She had a hemangioma planum on the right side of her face, low set ears, and convergent strabismus on the right eye . In infancy, the transfontanelar ultrasound and the computed tomography (CT) scan of the head were both normal. In the first years of her life, she was diagnosed with failure to thrive, developmental delay, hearing impairment, multiple upper respiratory infections, and restrictive VSD and membranous subaortic stenosis, which required surgery. At 13 years of age, a large ovarian cyst was diagnosed. At 15 years of age, she was diagnosed with SturgeWeber syndrome. A CT scan showed ocular asymmetry with greater dimensions of the left eye, hypercaption of contrast product in the external posterior wall of the right eyeball, and an almost absent mastoid pneumatization. Currently, she has moderate cognitive and language impairment, and is dependent for most daily activities. Due to the heart defects, we performed the analysis of the of 22q11.2 region by MLPA, fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), and array-CGH . MLPA identified four copies of this region, whereas FISH confirmed a tetrasomy (1:3, one normal chromosome and a 22q11.2 triplication in the other) that was most likely inherited from a paternal duplication (1:2) with an extra copy . Moreover, the array-CGH showed a triplication of 3 Mb (nucleotide positions 18,661,724 to 21,917,251) .
