A 34-year-old Caucasian man presented to the emergency department, with a 2-day history of worsening painful swelling in his left leg. This had severely limited his mobility. He did not report any shortness of breath, cough or chest pain, he was afebrile, and his observations were stable. Examinations of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems did not reveal any abnormalities. The left lower limb was found to be erythematous and diffusely swollen. The peripheries were cool but dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses were palpable. There was venous distension in the right inguinal region, extending to the lumbar and flank areas, but examination of the right lower limb was normal. The patient was usually fit and well. His medical history was remarkable for right lower limb DVT 14 years previously. No cause had been identified for this episode following thrombophilia screen. The patient recalled that lifelong warfarin therapy had been recommended at that time, but he had ceased treatment of his own accord after 3 years. There was no family history of note, particularly of venous thromboembolism (VTE) or thrombophilia. He reported only occasionally drinking alcohol, he was a non-smoker and worked in the financial industry. Ultrasound in the emergency department confirmed extensive clot, with complete occlusion of the external iliac vein, and common, deep and superficial femoral veins. The popliteal vein, posterior tibial veins, peroneal veins and anterior tibial veins were all partially occluded. The patient was discharged initially with low-molecular-weight heparin and follow-up planned for the next day, but later re-attended with worsening pain. Pulmonary embolus was excluded on CT pulmonary angiography and a CT venogram of the lower limbs was requested for further assessment. INVESTIGATIONS indicates blood results at admission. CT venogram of the abdomen and pelvis confirmed the presence of a left-sided DVT, extending up into the common iliac vein and towards the vertebral venous plexus. In addition, there were multiple abnormalities of venous anatomy, predominantly of the superficial veins on the right, and of the deep abdominal and pelvic veins on the left. The patient's IVC was noted to be hypoplastic, with enlargement of the vertebral venous plexus and azygous continuation of the IVC. On the right, there were extensive venous abnormalities arising from the superficial veins, extending through the subcutaneous tissues of the anterior abdomen and right flank. The left adrenal was shrunken and calcified, possibly as a result of previous ischaemia, but appearances of the remaining intra-abdominal organs were within normal limits. Only on questioning after his diagnosis did the patient recall intermittent swelling of both his legs as a child, but nothing more. It transpired that he had also undergone appendicectomy around the time of his first DVT. Abnormal pelvic vasculature had been noted at that time, although no further investigations had been offered. Echocardiogram demonstrated normal situs and structure with good systolic function. The patient had undergone a thrombophilia screen after his first DVT, and reported that this had been negative. A repeat screen was requested including factor V Leiden mutation, protein C and S activity, protein G20210A mutation and antithrombin activity, and these were normal. Lupus anticoagulant was positive at the time, and, following haematology review, it was recommended that this blood test be repeated in a few months' time.
