A six-week-old, full-term male was referred to our clinic for evaluation of a heart murmur and cyanosis. On physical examination, his weight was 3 kg, and the arterial oxygen saturation was 80% on room air. A harsh 3/6 systolic ejection murmur was best heard along the upper right sternal border. A wide pulse pressure was noted. A chest X-ray showed mild cardiomegaly with a plethoric left lung and underperfused right lung. A two-dimensional Doppler echocardiogram showed intracardiac findings consistent with TOF. The left PA could not be seen to originate from the main PA. Cardiac catheterization confirmed the diagnosis of TOF with a severely hypoplastic pulmonary trunk and an anomalous left PA arising from the ascending aorta (Figures 1 and 2). The aortic arch was rightsided with mirror-image branching of the head–neck vessels and a right descending aorta. Coronary angiography demonstrated a large conal branch crossing the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT). A computed tomography angiography was performed to further delineate the configuration of the head–neck vessels. It revealed the innominate artery arising from the left side of the ascending aorta, giving rise to the left carotid artery looping high into the neck with retropharyngeal course and also giving rise to the left vertebral and subclavian arteries. The right internal carotid artery was absent. The left anterior and posterior communicating arteries through the circle of Willis supply the right intracranial circulation . A fluorescent in situ hybridization test was positive for a chromosomal 22q11 deletion, suggesting DiGeorge syndrome. The patient was taken to the operating room the following day. After midsternotomy, he was placed on cardiopulmonary bypass and kept normothermic. The dilated left PA, which measured 6 mm, was detached from the ascending aorta, and the defect in the aorta was primarily repaired. The left PA was connected to the lateral aspect of the hypoplastic main PA in an end-to-side fashion. The anastomosis was augmented anteriorly with a piece of autologous pericardium to match the size discrepancy between the arteries. A 3.5-mm Gore-Tex central shunt was placed from the ascending aorta to the main PA in an end-to-end fashion. The patient was discharged from the hospital after uneventful recovery with systemic arterial saturations ranging between 82% and 86%. At six months of age, he underwent a successful complete repair of TOF via transatrial and transpulmonary approach with the use of short transannular pericardial patch. Preoperative cardiac catheterization demonstrated confluent branch pulmonary arteries and patent central shunt ( C).
