An African infant aged 9 months, residing in Tanzania was first seen at the age of 2 days in our newborn unit of Muhimbili National hospital. This infant had been referred from Rufiji District Hospital (about 173 km apart) because of an abnormally positioned heart and an abdominal wall defect. The defect was noticed by the mother soon after delivery and was confirmed by the attending midwives. The baby was born normally at term after an uneventful pregnancy. There was no history of consanguinity or exposure to obviously recognized teratogenic substances. The mother was on routine hematinic as per the antenatal care program in Tanzania. However, there was no antenatal sonography done at anytime during her pregnancy. The father was 40 years old and the mother was 26 years old when the baby was born. Parents are healthy, with no family history suggestive of birth defects, and they are both African peasants residing in rural Tanzania. On initial examination, the infant was alert, with no pallor, cyanosis or jaundice and the anthropometric examination was normal for gestational age. There was an obvious lower chest wall defect with cardiac pulsation visible at the epigastrium covered by a thin membrane. The manubrium was palpable but the sternal body was not appreciated and there was a large omphalocele measuring 15 × 10 cm, extending proximally to the epigastrium, covered by a thin membrane and dark surrounding skin . There were no other congenital malformations detected. Her respiratory rate was 44 breaths per minute and she was saturating at 98% in room air. She had a heart rate of 152 beats per minute, with the apex beat palpable over the epigastrium and a systolic thrill felt at the epigastrium. There was a diffuse pan systolic murmur grade 4/6 heard over the epigastrium and other systems were essentially normal. Her chest radiograph showed a normal manubriumsternum and lungs, with a displaced cardiac shadow . The electrocardiogram was not done because the machine was out of order. A transthoracic M-mode twodimensional (2D) and Doppler echocardiogram were done using Toshiba Echo machine with a 5MHZ transducer. The report showed an intact pericardium, moderate to large ventricular septal defect (VSD) measuring 6 mm with a left to right shunt, a large atrial septal defect (ASD) measuring 7 mm, with a left to right shunt. Based on these findings a conclusion of complete atrioventricular canal defect was made. Her abdomino-pelvic ultrasound showed an anterior abdominal wall herniation at the epigastrium with cardiac pulsation. Computerized tomography (CT) scan findings showed the absence of the mid portion and distal segment of the sternum, presence of an anterior abdominal wall defect with protrusion of the bowel loops into the thoracic cavity and a cardiac shadow noted at the epigastrium .
. Based on our investigation results we classified the patient to have the class II form of the syndrome due to the presence of four defects including: midline supraumbilical abdominal wall defect, a defect of the lower sternum and complex intracardiac defects, with an intact pericardium. Since it is very rare to have an intact pericardium and ectopia cordis we may have missed the pericardial defect, which would put the patient in the class I form of the syndrome. However, Pachajoa et al. had also described a case with an absent diaphragmatic pericardial defect in presence of a midline defect, upper abdominal wall abnormality, lower sternal defect and an anterior diaphragmatic defect . The intracardiac defects detected in this patient included VSD and ASD. The presence of these defects is similar to the case described by their case the patient had the complete form of Pentalogy of Cantrell and successful surgery was done at age of 7 months . Similarly Wen et al. described an incomplete form of pentalogy of Cantrell with ASD and VSD. However, contrary to the case presented here, double outlet right ventricle, transposition of great arteries and pulmonary stenosis were additional findings and it was not reported if surgery was done; but the patient was last seen at the age of 4.7 years . Our case could have had a relatively better outcome since she had an incomplete form of the syndrome. Previous reports suggest that, mortality is higher in infants with the complete form and associated extra cardiac anomalies whilst patients with ectopia cordis with intracardiac defects have a favorable outcome . With advancement in medical knowledge and technology, patients with complex intracardiac defects can survive longer beyond 6 years of age with normal growth and development . A child with the incomplete form of pentalogy of Cantrell without intracardiac defects was reported to have corrective surgery at 11 years of age and a more mild form of the syndrome was seen in an adult case . In the past 5 years, 23 new cases of pentalogy of Cantrell were published in different English journals and could be retrieved through the PubMed database. Out of these cases approximately 21 (91%) were reported to have survived by the time their case reports were written. In these cases the median age at their last contact was 10 months (ranging between 4 days to 5 years) . Prenatal diagnosis can be done using qualified and experienced obstetric ultra sonographers as early as 10 weeks of gestation using the traditional two dimensional (2D) imaging sonography; at which stage an omphalocele and ectopia cordis are common findings . While a 3D imaging sonography may be required for the diagnosis of certain fetal anomalies, the diagnosis of pentalogy of Cantrell can sufficiently be made with a traditional 2D imaging sonography . Obstetric ultrasound is indicated as a standard of care for routine evaluation of pregnant women in Tanzania, where majority of facilities have 2D imaging sonography machines. However, in our case prenatal ultrasound was not done at any point during the pregnancy, thus we missed the opportunity for prenatal counseling and early referral of this child.
