Arteriovenous shunts (AVS) of the neck and facial region are rare, and most cases are considered to be iatrogenic or related to trauma. Congenital shunts involving the external carotid artery and its branches are even less frequent. 1 We report the case of a 17-year-old male patient with a non-painful pulsatile lesion  with bruit over the right cervical area detected at the age of 6. There was no history of previous trauma. Studies performed revealed a shunt between the right internal maxillary artery (IMA) and right external jugular vein (EJV) but treatment was delayed as there were no associated complaints or neurological deficits. Recently he started complaining of slight tiredness for normal activities, and routine examination detected an enlargement of the right cardiac atrium. Therefore the lesion was reassessed in order to perform fistulae embolization. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) with selective right external carotid arteriography revealed a highflow shunt between an enlarged right IMA and the right maxillary vein, subsequently draining into the ipsilateral EJV ( (a, b)). There was also a communication between multiple small branches from the ascending palatine artery and the aforementioned vein. Transarterial embolization was then performed at the main shunting point, which had a width of 4 mm ( (c)), using a 4 Â 10 mm Hyperglide balloon (eV3, Inc) to allow flow control, followed by coiling with two 10 mm Â 30 cm, two 9 mm Â 25 cm and one 8 mm Â 24 cm Orbit Galaxy coils  and finally Onyx (eV3, Inc) injection to improve consolidation of the coil mass and prevent them from migrating distally. There was an immediate reduction of the pulsatile lesion and of the associated thrill. Post-embolization angiogram showed significant reduction of the shunt volume, and slow reconstitution of the shunt through the previously mentioned branches of the ascending palatine artery . Complete occlusion of the lesion at that time was protracted to avoid haemodynamic complications following the obliteration of such a high-flow shunt. Therewere no trismus or neurological deficits after the embolization. Follow-up echographic exam at 6 months after the procedure was compatible with complete obliteration of the shunt. ''Parachordal arteriovenous fistulae'' defines a group of embryologically derived AVS caused by defects involving the notochord, giving rise to congenital cranial and paraspinal shunts. In the cranial regions, these shunts involve exclusively the metameric arteries – maxillary, ascending pharyngeal, occipital and vertebral. Signs and symptoms depend on the feeding vessel but mainly on the characteristics of the draining pathway, because shunts draining into low-resistance outlets such as the internal or external jugular vein may cause cardiac overload. Other clinical manifestations include neurological deficits from pial venous congestion or haemorrhage due to pial reflux or venous infarction, 2 particularly if the draining pathway includes highresistance outlets such as the posterior external jugular veins, vertebral veins or epidural venous plexuses.In some cases these shunts can be seen in patients with specific entities such as Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF-1), 3 collagen diseases or hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia. Angiographically, flow-related aneurysms or arterial stenosis are not common, in contrast with narrowings and pouchings detected in veins as well as signs of venous thrombosis. In our patient there was a narrowing right at the main shunting point of the arteriovenous communication, and the venous structures showed some irregularities. Direct arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) from the IMA to the maxillary vein (EJV) are very rare. Maxillary AVFs to the maxillary vein are included along with ascending pharyngeal AVFs in a subgroup called ''Branchial AVS'' because of their feeding through branchial arteries. Kim et al. 1 reported a series of six cases of fistulas originating from the proximal IMA in which only two communicated with the EJV. In most cases the patient or their relatives describe a bruit associated with a pulsatile mass in the parotid region. Pain and tinnitus are rare, and there have been no reports of epistaxis or cranial nerve involvement. Cardiac overload is also uncommon in this type of AVF. 1,2 The slight tiredness for normal activities that our patient developed and the increased size of the right cardiac atrium may have been a sign of cardiac overload. This is possibly associated with the 11-year gap between diagnosis and current presentation, because of the increased flow to the heart over such an extended period. DSA is the gold standard for the characterization of these shunts. In most instances this is a high-flow shunt located at the origin of the middle meningeal or accessory meningeal artery 1,4 and draining into the EJV through the maxillary vein. The communications between the EJV and the pterygoid plexus must be taken into account because of a possible impairment of cerebral venous drainage. Retrograde opacification of the cavernous sinus with drainage toward the ophthalmic vein is rarely seen, but may result in venous congestion. 2 Endovascular therapy was the treatment option for the majority of the reported cases of parachordal fistulae involving shunts from the IMA. 1,4-7 The primary goal of treatment is to occlude the shunt, preserving the feeding artery and its contributors to the supply of neural structures. Glue and balloon have been used with a good outcome, sometimes combined with coils as in our case. Particle embolization has no place in the treatment of this condition. Maxillary pain and trismus are possible complications of this therapy but there are no reports of associated mortality. 2 This is the first described case of a partial embolization of this kind of shunt. As previously mentioned, our plan was not to occlude it completely because of the risk of haemodynamic complications. Our decision was to follow its evolution and treat it if shunting was shown to persist, with venous occlusion being the treatment option in that case. However, as DSA is the gold standard for the evaluation of these patients, we intend to perform it 1 year after the embolization procedure.
