A 15-year-old boy with hypoplastic left heart syndrome presents with newonset abdominal swelling and pretibial edema. The patient has been previously without symptoms from the cardiovascular perspective but is not very active and does not participate in sports. He is growing poorly, with height and weight <5th percentile for age, and has no signs of puberty (Tanner stage 1). Blood laboratories reveal low serum protein (albumin, 2.2 g/dL; total protein, 4.5 g/dL); liver enzymes are slightly elevated (aspartate aminotransferase, 60; alanine transaminase, 72); platelet count is diminished at 105 000/dL. Stool sample is tested for α1-antitrypsin, which is markedly elevated (382 mg/dL), indicating proteinlosing enteropathy (PLE). Abdominal ultrasound demonstrates ascites and an enlarged, heterogeneously echogenic liver. Echocardiography demonstrates unobstructed systemic and pulmonary venous pathways, good right ventricular function, mild tricuspid regurgitation, and unobstructed aortic arch. Cardiac catheterization shows pulmonary artery pressure of 12 mm Hg and right ventricle end diastolic pressure of 6 mm Hg. Gastrointestinal endoscopy with biopsy is recommended, which reveals small-bowel lymphangiectasia and inflammation localized to the terminal ileum. Patients born with a univentricular heart manifest one of the most challenging-to-manage forms of congenital heart disease. Over the past 30 years, a successful staged surgical strategy has emerged. The task of systemic perfusion is assigned to the one effective ventricle that nature has provided, whereas pulmonary blood flow is achieved through passive channeling of systemic venous return directly to the pulmonary arteries, absent an interposed ventricle. 1 Today, this is typically achieved in a 2-stage process. Superior vena caval flow is directed into the branch pulmonary arteries (bidirectional Glenn operation) at 4 to 6 months of age, and inferior vena caval flow is diverted directly to the pulmonary arteries (Fontan operation), either via a tunnel through the atrium or an extracardiac conduit, at 2 to 3 years of age. That sufficient cardiac output and oxygen delivery for human existence can be achieved without the presence of a pulmonary ventricle is hard to imagine but true. Application of a surgical strategy culminating in the Fontan operation has led to the current anticipated survival of most infants born with a singleventricle type of heart malformation, a remarkable achievement considering the lethal nature of the condition if untreated. However, as survivors make their way into adolescence and adulthood, they become susceptible to a variety of late consequences (
.
Treatment is commenced using a combination of sildenafil (Revatio) for pulmonary vasodilation and oral controlled-release budesonide (Entocort) as an anti-inflammatory steroid. Remission of PLE occurs after 4 months of medical treatment. Budesonide is weaned to a maintenance low dose, and the patient remains symptom free for 2 years. At age 17, PLE returns after a viral respiratory illness, with failure to respond to reinitiation of high-dose budesonide. Liver biopsy is performed, which reveals sinusoidal fibrosis with areas of bridging fibrosis but no cirrhosis. He is listed for heart transplant and receives an organ 6 months later, with resolution of PLE within 3 months after transplant.Office. Once the online version of the published article for which permission is being requested is located, can be obtained via RightsLink, a service of the Copyright Clearance Center, not the Editorial Circulation in
