The patient is a premature female singleton, born at 29 weeks' gestational age, with an ultrasonographic prenatal diagnosis of TOF. Before the second minute of life, the patient was intubated, and inhaled surfactant was administered for respiratory distress of prematurity. Attempts to insert a Replogle orogastric tube failed, because the tube could not be advanced .8 cm. Subsequent abdominal radiograph revealed diffuse gastric, small and large bowel gaseous distention, confirming the diagnosis of type C TEF. The Replogle tube was positioned in the distal esophageal pouch and kept to low continuous suction. Contrast radiography was not performed. Echocardiography confirmed TOF. The patient remained stable for the first 3 days of life. However, despite delicate ventilator management, she developed increasing abdominal distention and needed progressive ventilator support, prompting urgent intervention. On day 4 she was taken to the operating room, where she underwent a 2.5-cm transverse minilaparotomy, Stamm gastrostomy, and placement of a 10-Fr Mallinckrodt catheter. At the gastrostomy site, a 6-Fr Fogarty catheter was advanced under fluoroscopic guidance into the TEF (Figs 1 and 2). The balloon was cautiously inflated with 1 mL watersoluble radiopaque contrast until ventilator control indicated resolution of the air leak . The Fogarty catheter was secured to the abdominal wall. The Mallinckrodt was then temporarily placed to water seal to detect an air leak, of which there was none. Despite significant improvement of ventilator management, the patient was deemed too unstable to undergo repair at that time. Over the course of her hospitalization, the Fogarty balloon was deflated every other day for ∼30 minutes to prevent accumulation and aspiration of esophageal secretions. Gastric tube feeds were begun. On day 25, she was taken to the operating room for ligation of the TEF. The fistula was temporarily occluded with a 6-Fr Fogarty catheter via the trachea, and the patient underwent uncomplicated thoracotomy and suture ligation of the fistula. The distal esophagus was tacked to the chest wall under mild tension and the proximal esophageal pouch remained intubated with a Replogle catheter. On day 145, she underwent complete repair of TOF, closure of her patent foramen ovale, and ligation of her patent ductus arteriosus. Repair of TEF was deferred for 6 weeks in accordance with the recommendations of our cardiac surgery colleagues. On day 197, the patient underwent definitive reconstruction of the esophagus via thoracoscopic esophagoesophagostomy. She tolerated the procedure well, and there were no complications.
The patient was extubated on postoperative day 5. Iohexol upper gastrointestinal series on postoperative day 7 revealed a patent anastomosis with contrast flow into the stomach, with no evidence of extravasation or anastomotic leak ( . She was started on breast milk by mouth on postoperative day 15, with supplemental gastrostomy feeds. She recovered well from her operations and continued to gain weight appropriately. The patient was discharged from the hospital into the care of her parents on day 221 of life, smiling and active. She was last seen in clinic at 14 months of age (8 months after repair). At that time, she was tolerating tube feeding at goal and taking puffed baby food and yogurt by mouth, with Retrograde TEF balloon occlusion via gastrostomy.
