Atsushi Yao, 1 MD A 32-year-old male patient with ES induced by a ventricular septal defect (VSD) due to Down syndrome visited our hospital in March 2009, accompanied by his parents. He was being treated with digoxin (0.125 mg), furosemide (40 mg), aspirin (100 mg), and allopurinol (200 mg). The purpose of their visit was to inquire about new treatments available for ES. Physical examination revealed clubbed fingers with cyanotic skin, a prominent single second heart sound with no apparent murmur, and decreased respiratory sounds in the left lower lung field. Electrocardiography showed right ventricular hypertrophy . Chest X-ray revealed an enlarged pulmonary artery, a large bulla in the upper field of the right lung, and a pneumonia shadow in the lower left lung field . A VSD was confirmed by transthoracic echocardiography, and a large patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) was incidenORAL MEDICAL THERAPY FOR EISENMENGER SYNDROME tally found by three-dimensional computed tomography ; both were further visualized by angiography. Additionally observed were minor pulmonary embolisms with no significant defects in perfusion scintigraphy, renal infarctions, or multiple hepatic arteriovenous shunts ( –D). A hemodynamic study with oximetric analysis confirmed ES physiology as indicated by severely higher pulmonary vascular resistance than systemic vascular resistance and markedly decreased pulmonary blood flow, resulting in severe hypoxia (
. Because the decrease in the arterial oxygen saturation was not observed over the ostium of the PDA, prominent rightto-left shunt flow most likely originated through the VSD at rest ( . Bosentan at minimal dose of 62.5 mg was then initiated on an outpatient basis because his liver enzyme levels were slightly increased. Eleven months later, he was admitted for add-on therapy with tadalafil. Tadalafil at 40 mg was added to the bosentan therapy with no significant side effects during hospitalization. However, his systolic blood pressure at home had decreased to < 80 mmHg and did not recover even after the tadalafil dose was reduced to 20 mg. Therefore, we decided to stop the tadalafil therapy. The plasma brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) level gradually increased , causing us to increase the dose of bosentan to 125 mg. The platelet count then gradually decreased, finally reaching < 50 × 10 3 /µL, and the liver enzyme levels mildly increased. Because these changes were likely to be side effects of bosentan, the bosentan was abruptly stopped. We planned to begin administration of ambrisentan after elimination of the side effects. A few days later, his mother called and stated that he could not move from his bed because of worsened dyspnea. This suggested that his World Health Organization functional class had worsened from III to IV. We recommended readministration of 62.5 mg of bosentan, which immediately reversed his clinical status. After this event, we directly switched the 62.5-mg bosentan therapy to 5 mg of ambrisentan under hospitalization. For more than 6 months, the ambrisentan seemed to be successfully tolerated, although the patient's 6-minute walking distance did not improve.
