We report a case of a 12 year old girl, with no anamnestic singularities, who suffered of frontotemporal headache and who presented several absence-like seizure episodes during the months previous to the admission. She underwent a magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) scan, which revealed an aneurysm-likerevealed a PAVF with a single feeder originating from the first segment (P1) of the left posterior cerebral artery with a varicose venous drainage located medially to the right temporo-mesial pole, thus draining into the cavernous sinuses and right sigmoid sinus, with jugular veins injection in late contrast phases. Initial signs of venous hypertension were noted both supra-and infratentorially . During a collegial neurovascular team discussion of the case we evaluated that a surgical approach to a lesion so deeply located posed major drawbacks. We excluded also a radiotherapy approach since there is no evidence for its use in a vascular malformation with no nidus. We decided that an endovascular treatment of the lesion was to be planned. Since the venous drainage wasn't easily approachable, we preferred an arterial route: our options included the use of different embolic agents and coils. We planned to use coils, at least for the initial exclusion of the fistula, reserving the use of NBCA for the later phases. Parents were informed of the treatment strategy and after one month the patient underwent the endovascular exclusion of the fistula with the release of a total of 27 detachable platinum coils, thus summing to 479 cm of coiling. Our initial approach was with longer and bigger diameter coils to obtain a stable cast in the varicose drainage followed by other smaller fibered and PGLA-coated coils. No other embolic agent was employed . The procedure was uneventful and she was then admitted to the intensive care unit for early monitoring. During the procedure we administered 4000 international units of enoxaparin, continuing subcutaneously for three days after the procedure. During the first days post-procedure she complained of headache and nausea, which we treated with mild corticosteroid treatment and antiemetics, early tapered. A computed tomography scan showed no signs of ischemic or hemorrhagic complications or hydrocephalus three days after the procedure. An electroencephalogram recorded bilateral posterior abnormalities, with no epileptic focuses. Eventually she was dismissed 10 days after the procedure with no neurological symptoms, except for mild headache. Radiological follow-up was with MRA at one and six months showing no bleeding and an asymptomatic small ischemic lesion in the left anterior thalamus. A one-year control DSA showed complete exclusion of the fistula without complications .
