The proband is a Greek 50-year-old man ( , III-2) who manifested sudden onset of blurred vision and unsteadiness of gait; he was fully ambulatory but needed mild support to walk at open spaces. Neurological examination revealed mild paresis of the left cranial nerve VI as well as mild pyramidal and cerebellar signs on his right side. MRI scan of his brain , MRI a). His mother died at the age of 81 due to ICH and had similar findings in MRI ( , II-1, MRI b). A brain MRI scan was also performed for his elder (54 years old) asymptomatic brother ( , III-1, MRI c), and exam revealed multiple brain lesions similar to those of his brother indicative of the same disease. Diagnosis of cavernomatosis was established.
DNA was isolated from peripheral blood; coding exons, intron–exon boundaries, and promoter regions of the three genes were screened using primers (available upon request) designed according to the CCM1, CCM2, and CCM3 published nucleotide sequence of GenBank (accession nos. NG_012964.1, NG_016295.1, and NG_008158.1, respectively). PCR products were sequenced on 3500 Genetic Analyzer (Applied Biosystems, CA, USA), using the BigDyeTerminator v3.1 chemistry, following the manufacturer's procedures. Analysis was performed on both brothers, a maternal uncle ( , II-3), and a maternal aunt ( , II-4). Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) assay was performed using SALSA MLPA Kits P130 and P131 CCM (MRC Holland) to exclude the presence of large genomic rearrangements. Statistical analysis was performed by Coffalyser software. PCR-RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) was conducted on 300 control samples by HpyCH4IVenzyme (5′A/CGT3′) to estimate the variant's frequency. To assess potential dangerous effects of this novel variant on protein function, an in silico analysis was performed using two different tools: PolyPhen-2 and MutationTaster. For cDNA analysis, RNA was purified from lymphocytes isolated from peripheral blood and retro-transcribed by GeneAmp RNA PCR Core Kit (Applied Biosystems). CCM3 whole coding sequence was amplified and then sequenced. All patients were fully informed and written consent was obtained.
