The first patient was a 20-years-old female with chronic renal failure and systemic arterial hypertension, who had been on dialysis since February 2012 and on the waiting list for kidney transplantation. She had heart surgery at the age of 8 to treat a congenital heart disease (CIA type ostium secundum) and a disabled factor XII of 20 % (thrombotic factors predisposes). She also presented delayed psychomotor and learning development. Clinical examination showed no external phenotypic malformation evidence. In genetic assessment, we found a heterozygous A1298C MTHFR gene mutation. During abdominal investigation for renal transplantation, an ultrasonography and CT scan detected chronic liver disease, multiple nodules and the portal vein with a regular splenomesenteric junction path, but draining directly into the inferior vena cava, close to the right atrium as described in the pathology of Type 1 Abernethy malformation, demonstrated in . The main portal trunk and a large hepatic artery at the liver's hilum were absent. A liver biopsy was performed on a large hypoechoic lesion in segment III (50 X40 mm), which was diagnosed as adenoma without malignant cells, shown in . The liver enzymes were close to the normal values in assessment, but the echocardiography showed a hypertensive cardiomyopathy and mild aortic mitral regurgitation. This patient underwent combined liver and kidney transplantation in July 2014, and is currently presenting favorable clinical conditions and normal laboratorial analysis. In the second case, the patient was a 52-year-old female with celiac disease and hypothyroidism, diagnosed 10 years ago. Initially asymptomatic, AM was first suspected after a routine ultrasound exam six years ago for abdominal pain, at the time diagnosed as gastritis. The angio CT  clearly showed extra portal vein Classification of portosystemic anomalies (Abernethy malformation): Type I: Liver not perfused with portal blood-complete end-to-side shunt. Ia: Superior mesenteric vein and splenic vein do not join to form a confluence congenital absence of the portal vein. Ib: Superior mesenteric vein and splenic vein join to form a confluence portal vein. Type II: Liver perfused with portal blood-partial side-to-side shunt– end-to-end). Note: Direct portal systemic shunt with evidence of the longitudinal path along the upper mesenteric vein, portal vein axis with the deviation and a kinking route could be observed. Without any hepatic vein intra and finishing in inferior cava vein near the right atrium drainage into the inferior vena cava, above the liver, characteristic of Type 2 (side-to-side) Abernethy malformation, and intra-liver arteriovenous shunts . In the Color Doppler Ultrasound  exam, we found higher intrahepatic arterialization and portal vein malformation because of the fusion of the mesenteric vein with the portal vein, above the hilum of the liver entrance, where the path follows the venous ligament. She is stable, under clinical surveillance since 2009, however in a recent assessment, the patient showed impairedframe memory and attention span. In neurological and psychomotor evaluation she presented averbal episodic memory deficit with a delayed recall. The functioning and coordination of fine motor and the processing speed that she presented could be related to metabolic disorders and hearing impairment. Because of these findings, she was referred for speech therapy and neuropsychological rehabilitation, with promising improvements. All clinical evaluation, including gastrointestinal tract analysis and tumor markers were normal. The patient has refused liver transplantation, therefore clinical treatment and a close evaluation of the liver has been adopted, using an imaging approach intercalating CT scan and Color Doppler Duplex Ultrasound, mainly for liver nodule surveillance at six monthly intervals.
