A 1.5-year-old boy was referred to our hospital for a surgical correction of a partial anomalous pulmonary venous connection. The boy was born in the 32nd week of pregnancy, with 2.3 kg of weight and 49 cm length. Before admission he had a history of recurrent infections of the respiratory system. On admission, the child was cachectic and debilitated with a weight of 8.1 kg and length 80 cm, with no abnormalities in physical examination. Echocardiography showed an enlarged and hypertrophic right ventricle, which in addition to the high pulmonary pressure and flow was an indication for a surgical treatment. Cardiac catheterization revealed the mean pulmonary pressure of 39 mm Hg and pulmonary to systemic flow ratio (Qp/Qs) of 2.0. Angiography showed an abnormal drainage of the middle and lower lobes of the right lung to the relatively small IVC  and additional atypical hepatic venous drainage. The left and middle hepatic veins formed a truncus that drained directly into the right atrium , and three right hepatic veins created one vessel connected to the IVC . Other anomalies were sinus venosus inferior type ASD, persistent left superior vena cava, dextroposition of the heart, hypoplasia of right lung and right pulmonary artery, and systemic arterial collateral from the descending aorta to the right lung (which has been occluded during catheterization). During the surgical repair, cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was instituted by cannulation of the ascending aorta and separate venous cannulation of the three vessels, namely, two superior caval veins and the common trunk of the left and middle hepatic veins. The IVC was snared during the CPB. A baffle of autologous pericardium fixed in glutaraldehyde was placed into the right atrium around the whole lumen of the IVC to channel the anomalous pulmonary vein flow through the ASD into the left atrium. During the CPB, no signs of blood congestion were noticed in the lower part of the body. The IVC was ligated under the baffle and above the hepatic vein. The postoperative course was uneventful. In the follow-up after two months and six months, the patient was in a good general condition without
