We report the case of a 27-year-old Tunisian man who presented with dyspnea (New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class II) associated with typical angina. He has a medical history of ventricular septal defect associated with pulmonary stenosis diagnosed at 15 years old, with surgical treatment refused by his parents and with interrupted follow-up since then.Currently, a physical examination was notable for a grade 3/6 systolic murmur over the second left intercostal space without signs of heart failure or cyanosis. His electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with incomplete right bundle branch block. His chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly and dilatation of his left pulmonary artery. Transthoracic echocardiography showed normal left ventricular systolic function without wall motion abnormalities. The right ventricle was hypertrophied, dilated but with normal contractility. Severe pulmonary valvular stenosis was also visualized. An exploration of the ventricular septum showed a closed ventricular septal defect without evidence of shunt, related to a spontaneous closure of the defect. Cardiac catheterization confirmed a tight valvular pulmonary stenosis with systolic right ventricular and pulmonary arterial pressures at 103 and 14mmHg respectively, resulting in a 95mmHg systolic gradient between the right ventricle and pulmonary artery. Selective pulmonary angiography showed a severe valvular pulmonary stenosis and a left pulmonary artery stenosis with a poststenotic aneurysm. Left ventricle angiography showed a 12mm ventricular septal defect completely closed and an aneurismal left coronary artery. Selective coronary angiography revealed a dilated left coronary artery and 3mm coronary fistula arising from the mid segment of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) to the right ventricle (RV) with occlusion of the distal LAD . Percutaneous treatment of both lesions was decided starting with the CAF to prevent acute myocardial ischemia that may appear after acute coronary steal consequent to the decrease of the RV pressure after relief of the pulmonary obstruction. A successful transcatheter closure of the fistula using a 4/6 Amplatzer™ duct occluder II (ADO II) was achieved, with partial reopening of the fistula on the following day . No electrocardiogram changes were observed during or after the procedure. Heparin therapy was started with 150mg aspirin and 75mg clopidogrel to prevent thrombosis of the occluded vessel and discontinued after evidence of partial reopening of the fistula on systematic echocardiography control performed 24 hours after the procedure. Serial electrocardiograms documented normal tracings without evidence of ischemia. Echocardiography showed normal left ventricular function with no pericardial effusion, allowing discharge 48 hours after the procedure. Our patient was on 150mg aspirin per day. Complete closure of the fistula was documented nine months later  allowing a successful percutaneous treatment of the pulmonary stenosis, with reduction of the pulmonary gradient from 100 to 35mmHg, using a 23/40mm balloon, with an uneventful recovery after treatment.
