A 46-year-old Filipino female presented to the emergency department in shock after 2 episodes of haematemesis at home. She did not have a history of foreign body ingestion. Investigations showed anaemia with a haemoglobin level of 6.4 mg/dL, but electrolytes and liver function tests were otherwise normal. A chest x-ray done was initially thought to be normal, but later was reported as having bilateral interstitial markings suggestive of possible infective change . She was brought to the endoscopy centre for emergency oesophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), which demonstrated large amounts of fresh blood and clots in the stomach. The oesophagus was not visualised well. During the procedure, the patient had cardiovascular collapse and developed pulseless electrical activity. She was therefore transferred to the operating theatre for emergency surgery. At this point, it was assumed that the source of the bleeding was from the stomach or duodenum secondary to peptic ulcer disease. At laparotomy, a gastrostomy was performed and bleeding was found to be coming from above the cardio-oesophageal junction. An on-table EGD was performed, and an actively spurting vessel was seen at 25 cm from the incisors. Attempts were made at endoscopic haemostasis with haemoclips and adrenaline injection without success. Insertion of a Sengstaken–Blakemore tube for tamponade also failed to arrest the bleeding. An intraoperative angiogram was performed on-table to identify the bleeding vessel, with a view to angio-embolisation. Unfortunately, due to poor cardiac output, the fi stula was not well visualised except for a small area of abnormal vasculature near the area of haemorrhage. The impression then was a vascular malformation causing massive haemorrhage. The patient had multiple episodes of cardiovascular collapse intraoperatively despite massive blood product transfusions and this led to her eventual demise. At the postmortem examination, she was found to have disseminated miliary tuberculosis involving multiple organs including the kidneys and the lungs. The cause of AEF was found to be a necrotic nodule interposed between the aorta and oesophagus measuring about 3 cm in diameter. Several other small lymph nodes with miliary tuberculosis were seen in the region of the nodule. The pleural surfaces of both lungs were also heavily studded with miliary nodules.
