A right-handed middle-aged patient presented with a shuffling gait, somnolence, hiccoughing and diplopia; the latter resulted in a road traffic accident and his subsequent admission. Travel history included a recent holiday to Europe. There was no significant past medical history. The initial examination showed mildly dysfluent but appropriate speech. Higher cerebral functions were normal, however the patient had a slow and dyspraxic gait. Power, sensation and cranial nerve examination were entirely normal. A structural MRI study showed symmetrical bilateral T2 hyperintensity limited to the thalami , with no abnormal parenchymal enhancement evident. The spinal fluid was acellular with an elevated protein value of 1.39 mg/mL and glucose of 3.6 mg/mL, but no xanthochromia, organisms or malignant cells were identified. Oligoclonal bands were negative. Blood investigation was normal. EEG showed no background abnormal activity and no periodic discharges. Over the following days there were periodic exacerbations in cognitive decline and a drop in the mental test score from 30/30 to 18/30. The patient also developed extrapyramidal signs with limb rigidity, bradykinesia, and increasingly dysarthric speech and a new left facial palsy. The gait further deteriorated, in keeping with thalamic astasia, and developed frontal release reflexes, utilization behavior and extensor plantar responses. Further MRI brain imaging showed progression of symmetrical thalamic increased T2 signal, with corresponding free diffusivity on the DWI/ADC maps in keeping with vasogenic (interstitial) edema. On review of the imaging at the Regional Neurosciences Centre, a prominent vein within the left ambient cistern and possible straight sinus occlusion were noted. The possibility of a D-AVF was raised. A CTA and subsequent catheter cerebral angiogram were performed, confirming the diagnosis of a posterior fossa D-AVF with accompanying mid-straight sinus occlusion . Surgery was planned but, in the interim period, the patient had a left basal ganglia hemorrhage. Despite emergency surgical occlusion of the D-AVF and removal of the hematoma via a posterior fossa craniotomy, the patient had a further fatal left basal ganglia hemorrhage. Post-mortem examination showed the recent basal ganglia hemorrhage and a complex, predominantly left-sided, extensive posterior fossa vascular abnormality involving the cerebellum and left thalamus with a complex branching architecture and notably irregular muscle wall thickness, presumed to be a result of the arterialization of the venous system secondary to the D-AVF.
Provenance and peer review Commissioned; externally peer reviewed.
