We report the case of a 31-year-old Tunisian woman with a past medical history of congenital tricuspid atresia and pulmonary stenosis. In 1987, she underwent Blalock– Taussig operation at the age of 5 years and Fontan operation at the age of 12. The procedure included lateral atrial tunnel combined with bidirectional cavopulmonary anastomosis. Recovery after treatment was uneventful. After surgery the patient was in New York Heart Association (NYHA) class I functional status. She was on vitamin K antagonists (acenocoumarol) for only 7 years: she withdrew from them herself. Contraception was advised and programmed pregnancy was recommended; however, she consulted when she was already pregnant. There is no ethical issue about medical termination of pregnancy in Tunisia. A summary of her four pregnancies is given in . She refused tubal ligation after her first pregnancy. Her clinical status was satisfactory during pregnancy. The pregnancies did neither cause any further limitation of her exercise capacity (NYHA I) nor episodes of supraventricular arrhythmia or thrombosis complications. The puerperia were uneventful without obstetric complications, especially postpartum hemorrhage. Fetal echocardiography, performed regularly during her four pregnancies, showed no congenital defects and no other abnormalities. Currently the patient is in a good general condition and a NYHA functional class I. A physical examination revealed a regular heart rate of 75 beats per minute, oxygen saturation of 96%, and no murmur nor signs of congestive cardiac failure. The 6-minute walk test showed good exercise tolerance. The findings of the electrocardiograms were sinus rhythm with incomplete left bundle branch block . Her echocardiography showed a preserved left ventricle ejection fraction of 69%, without any significant atrioventricular regurgitation. Both atriums communicate by a large atrial septal defect. Doppler interrogation of the anastomosis revealed a laminar pattern . Her four children develop well and no abnormalities of their cardiovascular system were detected.
