We report a case of a 54-year-old obese woman with a past medical history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia who presented to our neurosurgical clinic for an evaluation of an episode of transient left hand clumsiness and dysarthria lasting " a few minutes " one day ago. This was preceded by a sub-acute onset of neckstiffness and vomiting five days prior. The patient's social history was remarkable for a 15 pack-year smoking history and daily intake of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Clinical examination was completed using MRA performed at the Neuromed Diagnostic Imaging Center (Timişoara, Romania) using a 1.5-tesla MR scanner. Measurements of the length and diameter were performed using multiplanar reconstruction (MPR) technique. Continuity between the arterial lumens and fenestration arms was performed using shaded surface display (SSD) (virtual arterial endoscopy). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) angiography revealed a large, convex, lens-like fenestration of the M1 segment of the right MCA, just distal to the origin of the temporopolar artery (TPA) . The MCA fenestration had a length of 8.0 mm and a width of 6.6 mm located at the proximal third of the fenestration. The upper arm of the fenestration had a length of 12.8 mm and a diameter of 1.2/0.8 mm in the middle third. The lower arm had a length of 10.5 mm and was flat in cross section and a diameter of 0.9/0.4 mm in the distal third. Additionally, fenestration of the MCA was associated with a small slit-like fenestration of the BA, a hypoplastic A1 segment of the right ACA, bilateral origin of PCA from ICA , and bilateral absence of the PCoA. No other anatomical variants were detected. Our patient had multiple vascular risk factors including: hypertension, obesity, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia and smoking. The association between MCA fenestration [with a significantly decreased lumen of the lower arm ] and cerebral ischemia suggests that the fenestration disturbed blood flow and caused cerebral ischemia. After an extensive evaluation of the clinical symptoms and imaging examinations, the patient was put on specific medications.
