Our patient was a 22-year-old male with body weight of 55 kg, referred from Bali, with a chief complaint of cyanosis since birth. On physical examination, cyanosis was seen in the lips and tongue, but no dyspnea was observed. His first heart sound was normal and the second heart sound was single. The grade 3 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur was best heard at the second intercostal space of the left parasternal line. Respiratory sounds were vesicular with no rhonchi. The abdomen was flat with good turgor and no hepatomegaly. Clubbed fingers were found on the extremities. Laboratory examination showed a hemoglobin level of 23.1 g/dL, hematocrit 71.1%, leukocytes 9,210/uL, and platelets 420,000/uL. Right QRS axis and right ventricular hypertrophy were found on electrocardiogram, while the chest x-ray showed right ventricular hypertrophy with concave pulmonary segment and decreased pulmonary blood flow. Echocardiography showed double outlet right ventricle (DORV), sub-aortic VSD and severe infundibulum pulmonary stenosis.angiography. We decided to close the VSD with a 10 mm symmetrical perimembranous device (Lifetech速). A Terumo速 guide wire and Judkin Right速 (JR) catheter were used in this procedure to locate and cross the VSD from the left ventricle to the right ventricle. Several attempts were made before successfully crossing the VSD. After the wire crossed the VSD, several attempts was made to engage it into the right atrium and then to the vena cava, but these attempts failed. We then advanced the wire into the pulmonary artery, after which it was snared and pulled out of the inferior caval vein to create an arteryvenous loop. Over the guide wire, a delivery catheter was introduced into the inferior caval vein and advanced until its tip reached the ascending aorta. The JR catheter and guide wire were manipulated in such a way that it formed a loop, which slid into the left ventricle, so that the tip of the delivery catheter was positioned in the left ventricle. After the delivery catheter tip was positioned in the left ventricle, the guide wire was withdrawn. A VSD closure device which had been screwed into the tip of a delivery cable, was compressed inside a loading catheter, which then was introduced under the delivery catheter. The device, attached by screw to the delivery cable, was advanced until it reached the left ventricle. The left disk of the device was deployed first, then the whole system was pulled out until the left disk touched the ventricular septum. Then the right disk was opened in the right ventricle by pulling out the delivery system. After deployment, angiography was performed several times to check the device position before release, showing that the device fit stably across the defect. However, after release, the device embolized into the ascending aorta and then to the descending part near the iliac bifurcatio. We successfully snared and withdrew the device. By way of femoral arterial angiography, no damage to the right iliac artery was observed. Using the same technique as described above, we re-crossed the VSD using a JR catheter and a Terumo速 guide wire. We decided to close the VSD with a PDA closure device, because this device is longer and quite stable to engage to the VSD. Using the same technique, the delivery catheter over the guide wire was advanced until its tip reached the ascending aorta, then the guide wire was pulled out. The PDA closure device was attached by screw to the tip of the delivery cable, compressed inside a loading catheter and introduced into the delivery catheter. Initially, the retention disk was deployed in the ascending aorta, followed by pulling down the whole system until the retention disk was positioned below the aortic valve. Subsequently, the whole system was slowly pulled again until the side of the device touched the ventricular septum, followed by pulling the delivery catheter to open the body of the device. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) and angiography were performed to check the device position and stability, revealing good results. Then we released the device from the delivery cable, after which it still sat nicely across the defect. When the angiogram was repeated, the position was found to be stable, but other residual VSDs were identified. Our attempt to cross the other residual VSDs using a guide wire and a JR catheter was unsuccessful. Finally, we decided to end the procedure because we were concerned that further manipulation using the catheter would dislodge the implanted device. Moreover, after the biggest residual VSD was successfully closed, the pressure of the right ventricle decreased by half immediately afterwards, so that a further attempt to close other residual VSDs was considered unnecessary. After the procedure, the patient was transferred directly to the ward without need for ICU care. He was clinically improved. His chest x-ray showed decreased cardiomegaly and no more pericardial effusion. The patient was discharged one week after the transcatheter closure procedure in good condition after having been hospitalized for almost 3 months.
