A 28-week gestational age 1.1 kg infant male was postnatally diagnosed with moderate posterior malalignment VSD, severe LVOT obstruction with hypoplastic aortic annulus and bicommisural valve, and hypoplastic transverse aortic arch with discrete coarctation. The aortic valve annulus measured 3.2 mm (Z score of À3.8) while the ascending aorta measured 4.9 mm, the transverse arch measured 2.4 mm (Z score À2.1) and the aortic isthmus measured 1 mm (Z score À3.2) as assessed by transthoracic echocardiography (Figures 1 and 2). The mitral valve annulus was normal, and the left ventricle was apex forming. There was a small patent foramen ovale (PFO) present. Surfactant was administered to the patient because of rapidly increasing oxygen deficiency resulting from prematurity. Routine newborn screening revealed a diagnosis of severe congenital hypothyroidism; thyroid replacement therapy was initiated. After extensive discussion between the neonatal, cardiology, cardiac intensive care, and cardiac surgical teams, the decision was made to proceed with a hybrid stage I palliation due to a number of patient factors including extreme low-birth weight, extreme prematurity as well as complexity of the necessary repair. Most in the group felt that this patient would ultimately require a Norwood/Rastelli style operation, given the nature of the LVOT obstruction. On day of life 10, a median sternotomy was performed. After dissecting out the PAs bilaterally, a 3.5-mm GORE-TEX shunt (W.L. ) was transected, longitudinally incised into two 2-mm wide strips, and each marked (but not cut) centrally, 2 mm in from each edge, to establish a mark-to-mark distance of 7 mm in length. These bands were placed circumferentially around the branch PAs, overlapped at the marks to establish a circumference of 7 mm (or a PA diameter of just over 2 mm), and sewn together using 6-0 Prolene. A pursestring suture was then placed in the proximal main PA, immediately distal to the sinutubular junction, and a 6F sheath was advanced into the main PA and secured in place. Heparin was administered. A directional catheter and 0.014-in coronary pressure guidewire were introduced and utilized to measure the distal PA pressure bilaterally. Initial bilateral mean PA pressure was 14 mm Hg without substantial pulsatility (pulse pressure < 1 mm Hg) identified. Biplane main PA angiography was performed to evaluate the banded branch PAs and ductal anatomy. Adjustments were then made to loosen the bilateral PA bands, given the lack of pulsatility seen by pressure tracing, the tight angiographic appearance of the bands, and the expected long duration of banded branch PAs in this very preterm 1.1 kg neonate. Following band adjustment, the bilateral mean PA pressure measured 25 to 28 mm Hg with a pulse pressure of 7 to 8 mm Hg, which we felt to be satisfactory. Repeat angiography demonstrated somewhat looser appearing PA bands, each slightly proximal to PA branching, with qualitatively equivalent right-and left-sided pulmonary venous return on levophase. In our practice, we rely upon the constellation of angiographic, branch PA pressure, and saturation data to achieve adequate PA band tightness and appropriate balance of pulmonary and systemic circulations. Following completion of the PA band manipulation, focus shifted to endovascular stenting of the ductus arterious. A 0.018-in floppy-tipped stiffshaft guidewire was advanced across the ductus into the descending aorta. Two 6 Â 20 mm eV3 Protégé self-expanding Nitinol stents (ev3 Endovascular, Plymouth, Minnesota) were sequentially deployed (telescoped) in the ductus arteriosus to ensure adequate coverage across the entirety of the ductal arch. Lower extremity saturations were in the mid-high 80's while upper extremity saturations were in the low 90's with excellent hemodynamics. Due to the small patient size, the decision was made to leave the chest open at that time. Delayed sternal closure took place uneventfully on postoperative day 2. The atrial septum was left uninstrumented. Postoperatively, the patient was managed by the neonatal and cardiac intensive care services. Although extubated within a few weeks postoperatively, the patient developed respiratorydistress requiring reintubation and mechanical ventilation at 2 months of life. Cardiac catheterization at that time demonstrated excellent hemodynamics (branch PA pressure means of 8 and 12 mm Hg, mean right atrial pressure of 4 mm Hg, and RV end-diastolic pressure of 6 mm Hg) without ductal arch obstruction. Although left atrial pressure was not directly obtained, the atrial septum was left uninstrumented given the paucity of evidence for left atrial or pulmonary venous hypertension in the setting of normal distal PA pressure. Necrotizing enterocolitis developed and was treated medically with intravenous antibiotics and parenteral nutrition. Ultimately, the patient was discharged to home at 4.5 months of age and 3.9 kg with no ventilatory or oxygen requirements, receiving oral medications and a combination of oral and gavage feeding. Echocardiography at discharge demonstrated excellent RV systolic function, no significant atrioventricular valve regurgitation, an unobstructed ductal arch, unobstructed ascending aorta with exclusive antegrade flow, no gradient across the crowded LVOT, and banded PAs with systolic gradients of 60 to 70 mm Hg. After an uneventful outpatient course, at approximately 8 months of age and 6.9 kg, the patient underwent an elective complete repair. Imaging at that time demonstrated substantial subaortic obstruction but an aortic valve annulus that now measured 7.3 mm (Z score À1.8; ). Therefore, the biventricular repair included aortic arch reconstruction, PFO suture closure, VSD CorMatrix patch (CorMatrix, Roswell, Georgia) closure, subaortic stenosis resection, and PA band removal with bilateral PA patch reconstruction. The LVOT was managed by resecting a large shelf of subaortic muscle; the valve was dilated with a Hagar dilator. The aorta was reconstructed by resecting the PDA and ductal stent entirely, followed by homograft patch augmentation from the distal ascending aorta all the way to the proximal descending aorta. The perioperativecourse was uncomplicated, and the patient was discharged home on the eighth postoperative day. At outpatient followup at 16 months of age, echo demonstrated a normally functioning aortic valve with trivial LVOT obstruction (peak instantaneous pressure gradient of 15 mm Hg), normal left and right ventricular function, and no residual intracardiac shunting.
