Retrospective review of our departmental neurosurgical/neurointerventional case logs from 1995 to 2012 was performed following approval by our Institutional Review Board. The following criteria were used to select patients for inclusion into the cohort: (1) diagnosis of cerebral AVM, (2) complete surgical resection with negative early postoperative cerebral angiogram (within 6 months of surgery), and (3) follow-up angiographic imaging at .6 months posttreatment. Patient demographics and clinical data including age, clinical presentation, and treatment modalities (surgery alone or surgery with prior embolization) were included after reviewing the medical records. Angiographic imaging reports were reviewed, and a neurointerventionist blinded to clinical information reviewed all available radiological images. For cases with available imaging, AVM morphology on the initial angiogram including nidus diameter, presence of deep venous drainage, nidus eloquence, and visual compactness score of 1 to 3 27 (with 1 corresponding to diffuse type) was assessed.
Two hundred three patients underwent AVM resection in the study time frame. Seventy-two patients met eligibility criteria and were included in the study analysis. Patient demographics, clinical data, and treatment modalities are shown in . Pretreatment radiographic parameters are also summarized in
; these parameters were assessed only for the 50 patients with radiological images available for review. All preoperative embolizations were done using n-butyl cyanoacrylate (N-BCA) glue, and nidal penetration with embolic material was achieved.
Case 1 A 36-year-old woman who was initially diagnosed with a leftsided splenial SM grade III AVM after a workup for headaches, and who underwent 2 sessions of embolization at an outside institution, presented to our facility with acute onset of severe
), and deep venous drainage. Further embolization with N-BCA was performed with reduction of the nidus and reduced flow on control angiogram , but with residual filling of the AVM. Thus, the patient underwent surgical resection 12 days following embolization. The immediate postresection angiogram demonstrated no early draining veins and no AVM remnant . The postoperative course was uncomplicated, and the patient was discharged home on postoperative day 4. A routine cerebral angiogram was performed 3 years following surgical resection and demonstrated a nidus of recurrent AVM within the posterior left splenial region supplied by small branches of the left posterior cerebral artery and deep venous drainage  in a location corresponding to a previously embolized portion of the AVM . The patient remained asymptomatic and was referred for radiosurgical management.
Case 2 A 30-year-old woman had a sudden onset of headache 3 days prior to presenting at our institution. Head CT showed a small intracerebral hemorrhage at the posterior aspect of the splenium of the corpus callosum with extension into the right lateral ventricle. Cerebral angiography showed a SM grade III AVM with 10 · 30 mm nidus and feeders from parieto-occipital branches of the right posterior cerebral artery and superior parietal branches from the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) with deep venous drainage to the galenic system . The patient underwent a successful single session of N-BCA glue partial embolization 3 weeks after presentation with surgical resection the next day. Cerebral angiogram performed 4 weeks after surgery was negative for residual AVM . The patient underwent routine follow-up cerebral angiogram 1 year after surgery, which showed recurrence of the AVM nidus and deep venous drainage . The location of recurrent nidus corresponded to embolic material located on the immediate postoperative presubtracted angiogram . The patient was referred for stereotactic radiosurgery treatment. Case 3 A 31-year-old man initially presented with decreased consciousness at an outside hospital facility and was diagnosed with left frontal intracerebral hemorrhage with intraventricular extension and hydrocephalus. Upon patient transfer to our institution, he underwent placement of an external ventricular drain. Cerebral angiogram revealed a SM grade III mesial frontal AVM with 25 · 30 mm nidus supplied by numerous branches from pericallosal and callosal arteries bilaterally with intranidal aneurysm and venous drainage into the superior sinus and basal vein of Rosenthal . Two pedicles of the left anterior cerebral artery (ACA) were embolized using N-BCA with approximately 40% of nidus size reduction. A second embolization session with N-BCA glue was performed 8 weeks later; 3 arterial pedicles of the left ACA and 1 pedicle of the right ACA were embolized . The patient underwent surgical resection the following day. The immediate postoperative angiogram demonstrated no residual AVM nidus but small perinidal dysplastic vessels , and a small filling defect within the anterior cerebral artery anterior segment (A2) was noticed and treated with aspirin. The next diagnostic cerebral angiogram performed was 6 months later, which showed no residual AVM and no remaining filling defect of the A2 . The patient presented with mild headache 3 years later, and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed enhanced vessels at the surgical area. Cerebral angiogram was performed, which showed a racemose tangle of vessels involving the pericallosal region consistent with recurrent AVM nidus . The location was similar to the location of the previously embolized portion of the AVM . The patient was referred for radiosurgery. It is noteworthy that all postoperative angiograms in all 3 cases, including the immediate postoperative imaging, were performed in a neurosurgical endovascular angiography suite using highquality biplane angiography.
