A 3.6-kg boy, born by spontaneous vaginal delivery to Jehovah's Witness parents at 39 weeks' gestation, developed respiratory distress at 16 hours of life. He was stabilized on nasal cannula oxygen. Echocardiography performed on dayof-life (DOL) 3 revealed bilateral PDAs. The right pulmonary artery (RPA) was diffusely hypoplastic and completely discontinuous from the main pulmonary artery (MPA) and originated instead from a narrowed right-sided PDA that arose from the base of the innominate artery. Cardiac anatomy was otherwise normal, and biventricular function was normal. The patient was started on prostaglandin E1 drip and transferred to our institution on DOL 4 for surgical evaluation. Notably, the parents requested a team capable of performing bloodless surgery in accordance with their religious beliefs. The patient arrived at our institution with intermittent tachypnea and desaturations to systemic arterial saturation of 86% requiring oxygen delivery via nasal cannula. Blood draws were limited. Prostaglandin infusion was continued. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) obtained on DOL 6 confirmed the diagnosis of isolated RPA discontinuity (Figures 1, 2). Early surgical repair was proposed, given the neonate's respiratory symptoms and ductal-dependent state. A lengthy discussion was held with the parents who understood that although everywould be made to avoid the use of blood products during surgery, blood would be given in life-or-death situations. Surgery was performed on DOL 10. A miniaturized CPB circuit with total priming volume 140 mL was used. The prime consisted of plasmalyte crystalloid solution with 50 mL 25% albumin, 70 mg calcium chloride, 4 mEq sodium bicarbonate, and 400 U heparin. Tubing diameters were 1/8'' for arterial lines and 3/16'' for venous lines. Tubing connection lengths were minimized as much as possible, and the perfusion apparatus was positioned close to the operating table. A hollow-fiber membrane oxygenator (Dideco D-100 Kids, Sorin, Arvada, CO) with priming volume 31 mL was used, but without an arterial line filter, thus sparing the 16 mL priming volume required for the filter. To reduce excess circuit volume, a hemoconcentrator (Hemocor HPH Junior., Medivators, Minneapolis, MN) with priming volume 8 mL was used. A Fresenius CATS (Fresenius, Bad Homburg, Germany) autotransfusion system, permitted by the parents, was used for intraoperative cell salvage. Following median sternotomy and standard aortic and right atrial cannulation, the patient was placed on CPB and kept at normothermia. We proceeded without cross-clamping the aorta, thus avoiding the use of cardioplegia. Upon gross inspection, the RPA was small, measuring 3 to 4 mm in diameter. Consistent with preoperative imaging, the RPA was completely discontinuous from the MPA and originated instead from a right-sided PDA. The normal left pulmonary artery was controlled, and the left-sided PDA was ligated. The RPA was mobilized to the hilum, where the lobar branches were individually controlled. The right-sided PDA, connecting the innominate artery and RPA, was ligated. The proximal MPA was then clamped. An anterior flap was created from the MPA, hinging on the vessel's right side. The right-sided PDA was then transected at its insertion onto the RPA near the hilum. The posterior wall of the RPA was then anastomosed to the MPA flap to create an RPA posterior wall composed entirely of native tissue. Finally, the anterior portion was reconstructed using a glutaraldehyde-treated pericardial patch harvested earlier in the procedure. The operation proceeded without complications. During CPB, pH ranged from 7.37 to 7.56 and lactate levels ranged from 0.9 to 1.4 mmol/L. Using near-infrared spectroscopy, cerebral tissue oxygen saturation was 64% preoperatively, ranged between 41% and 56% during CPB, and was 46% after CPB. The patient's hematocrit was 40% before CPB and as low as 27% during CPB. The CPB flow rate was 0.56 L/min. Ultrafiltrate of 50 mL was removed by the hemoconcentrator. As the patient came off CPB, all blood remaining within the chest cavity and within the CPB circuit were returned to the patient's circulation. Cell saver of 10 mL was . Coronal oblique maximum intensity projection image of Gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography demonstrating an isolated right pulmonary artery connected to a right patent ductus arteriosus from the base of the right innominate artery. Ao indicates aorta; MPA, main pulmonary artery; PDA, patent ductus arteriosus; RPA, right pulmonary artery.
. Axial maximum intensity projection image of Gadoliniumenhanced magnetic resonance angiography demonstrating the left pulmonary artery arising normally from the main pulmonary artery. Ao, aorta; LPA, left pulmonary artery; MPA, main pulmonary artery. given intraoperatively for a hematocrit of 28% after coming off CPB. The total time on CPB was 111 minutes. Hemostasis was assured at all surgical sites before chest closure. The patient arrived in the intensive care unit intubated and in stable condition, with a hematocrit of 25%. The last hematocrit measured during hospitalization was 22% on postoperative day (POD) 2. Because the patient had a rapid and uneventful recovery, with minimal chest tube output and no need for vasopressors or inotropes, further blood draws were limited. He was extubated on POD 3 and was stable on room air with saturations 94% to 100%. Erythropoietin and supplemental iron were started on POD 4 with tolerance of oral feeds. Postoperative imaging via echocardiography and MRA revealed continuous branch pulmonary arteries and good flow through the reimplanted RPA. The patient was discharged home on POD 7. No blood transfusions were given during the entire hospital course.
