This case report involves a male born, a product of in vitro fertilization (IVF), at 38 weeks gestation by spontaneous vaginal delivery (SVD). Prenatal history showed preeclampsia toxemia and congenital heart anomalies. Fetal echocardiography (ECHO) demonstrated 1 single cardiac ventricle with thick walls, and the heart was shifted 90° to the left. At birth, the patient weighed 2780 gm, and APGAR scores were 6 and 8 at 1 and 5 minutes, respectively. A highpitched stridor and weak cry were associated with respiratory distress and significant desaturation episodes reaching 64%. The patient was transferred to NICU on noninvasive facemask ventilation (CPAP) 6 cm H 2 O and FiO 2 0.40 to 0.50. In spite of these measures, the patient remained tachypneic with subcostal and intercostal retractions, and the decision was made to intubate. After multiple failed intubation attempts, the patient's oxygen saturation was maintained at 87% by ambu bagging, via face mask. At this time, the pediatric airway team was contacted for further evaluation. The patient was shifted to the operating room, and direct laryngo-bronchoscopy (DLB) in spontaneous breathing technique revealed a C-SGS of grade III according to Myer-Cotton classification. The examination showed a shelf-like thick anterior cricoid lamina obstructing most of the lumen except scanty space posteriorly. The posterior glottic space was within the acceptable range. The whole endolaryngeal space was covered by normal mucosa. The 2.7-mm-rod Hopkins scope was not able to be passed to examine the distal airway. Savary-Gilliard tracheal dilators were used to gently dilate pliable fetal cartilage and complete the airway examination. The patient's trachea was normal in diameter but showed tracheal bronchus anomaly . Size 2 ETT was inserted after minimal dilatation without causing any damage. The aim of minimal dilatation was to complete the examination, check the extent of stenosis, and look for other anomalies that might change the management plan. Additionally, it facilitated the intubation by slightly augmenting the lumen. However, if the patient were unable to be intubated, then an intraoperative tracheotomy would have been performed, along with the expansion procedure and the tracheotomy closure immediately. Thus, we could reconstruct the airway and avoid tracheotomy in the same time. The decision was made to do SS-LTP with anterior TAC graft. The pediatric airway team was fully aware of all potential risks in such an unwell patient, and although the patient did not develop cardiogenic shock at birth, all precautions were taken for any cardiac instability during the procedure. Laryngeal exposure revealed a very small and contracted cricoid cartilage (3 mm × 6 mm), and an ACS was performed in order to augment the subglottic area. The patient was then re-intubated with size 3.5 ETT. Thyroid alar cartilage was harvested after estimating the proper dimensions of the required graft . Surgical closure was accomplished with a small drain left in situ, and the patient was sent to NICU intubated using the ETT as a stent.The patient remained intubated for 10 days postoperatively before being transferred back to the operating room for a second DLB. This showed a patent airway with a welltaken graft with a thin layer of mucosa seen covering the graft, but the cricoid had areas of denuded cartilage laterally as a result of the tube pressure . Extubation was done in the operating room, and the patient started on CPAP. The exposed cartilage healed without any granulation tissue formation just by avoiding further intubation. Two weeks later, patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) ligation and a BlalockTaussig (B-T) shunt were performed.
The patient was discharged home 2 weeks after the first cardiac surgery and readmitted 6 months later for taking down B-T shunt and right side bidirectional cavopulmonary connection. The patient then developed right diaphragmatic paralysis, after the second cardiac procedure, treated by right diaphragmatic plication. During the subsequent surgeries, the patient was intubated without any resistance and extubated without any complication. The pediatric airway team have been following the patient in the pediatric airway clinic for more than 1 year without any evidence of further stenosis occurring.
