A 36-year-old G3 P0020 was referred to Maternal-Fetal Medicine due to ultrasound abnormalities. Her initial anatomy scan at an outside institution revealed a fetus with Address correspondence to Anna W. Kneitel, Business: 1500 E Medical Center Drive, L4000, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. E-mail: akneitel@gmail.com   A. W.
hydrops and a possible ventricular septal defect. A subsequent ultrasound at 20w3d revealed persistent scalp edema, skin edema, a thickened nuchal fold, progressive pleural effusions and ascites, and a large cardiac inter-ventricular septal defect. Peak systolic velocity of the middle cerebral artery (PSV of MCA) did not suggest fetal anemia. The patient was counseled regarding possible etiologies of non-immune hydrops, and genetic amniocentesis was performed. Amniotic fluid was sent for amniotic fluid alpha-fetoprotein, fluorescent in-situ hybridization, and fetal karyotype, all of which were normal. Cells were held for possible microarray analysis and DiGeorge syndrome testing. Cytomegalovirus IgG and IgM and Toxoplasmosis IgG and IgM were drawn and were normal. Past medical history was significant for two prior pregnancies terminated electively. She was 5 4 tall. She required surgery as a child for strabismus. She reported some difficulty in school, but graduated from high school and appeared to be of normal intelligence. She quit smoking with the current pregnancy. She had no other significant medical or surgical history. Her family history was unremarkable. Upon referral to our Fetal Diagnostic Center at 23w6d gestation, her fetus was found to have massive ascites, fetal hydrops with massive bilateral effusions compressing the heart and lungs, and skin edema. No ventricular septal defect was identified and the PSV of MCA was again normal. Chylothorax was considered in the differential and the patient was offered thoracentesis for diagnosis and possible therapy. Ultrasound guided diagnostic fetal thoracentesis was performed and fluid sent for cell count. The pleural fluid was found to contain 90% leukocytes; the patient was offered fetal thoracoamniotic shunt placement. The pleural effusions were predominantly right sided and a thoracoamniotic shunt was placed into the right fetal chest at 25 weeks gestation Follow-up ultrasounds revealed an increasing left pleural effusion with significant rightward shifting of the mediastinum. Left thoracoamniotic shunt was offered and placed at 27 weeks gestational age. Follow-up ultrasounds revealed small stable bilateral pleural effusions; both thoracoamniotic shunts remained in place. After the karyotype and microarray returned normal results, molecular genetic testing for Noonan syndrome was initiated. The sequencing panel consisted of eight genes in the RAS/MAPK pathway, including BRAF, HRAS, KRAS, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, PTPN11, RAF1, and SOS1. Simultaneous sequence analysis of these genes resulted in the identification of a heterozygous S605F missense mutation (c.1814C > T) in the RAF1 gene, a nonconservative amino acid change. The patient herself was subsequently tested and found to carry the same mutation. The child's father did not harbor the S605F variant in the RAF1 gene. Both fetal and maternal echocardiograms found no evidence of no abnormalities. Over the remainder of pregnancy, the ascites resolved. There remained persistent small bilateral pleural effusions with the shunts in place. The patient was admitted to labor and delivery for induction of labor at 40 weeks gestation, at which time oligohydramnios was noted. During her labor course, she developed preeclampsia without severe features. She underwent primary low-transverse cesarean section for arrest of dilation. A male infant was born weighing 3030 g with 1 and 5-minute Apgar scores of 4 and 7. Examination revealed a well-appearing term infant with pectus excavatum, a low set right ear and a marginally low set left ear. No webbed neck was noted. He had respiratory distress at birth thought to be secondary to bilateral chylothoraces. The thoracoamniotic shunts were removed after delivery, and the infant was intubated and transferred to the neonatal intensive care unit. A chest tube was placed on the left side after delivery, and remained in place until day of life 10. He initially required intubation and was kept on high frequency jet ventilation for 2 days. He transitioned to
