A 12-year-old boy presented to our department with dyspnea after exercise (decreased exercise tolerance). His mother and elder brother were healthy. According to his mother, his father had a webbed neck and webbed toes and had died of congenital heart disease (further details unavailable). His parents were not consanguineous. Other relatives had no related symptoms. The patient was 131 cm tall (< 3rd percentile) and weighed 29 kg (< 3rd percentile). He had distinctive facial features (including a wide forehead, hypertelorism, ptosis, micrognathia, and low-set posteriorly rotated ears), a webbed neck, webbed fingers , a generalized body rash, and scoliosis. A systolic murmur in the II–III intercostal region on the left sternal border was found during physical examination. Electrocardiography displayed wide and high P waves and QRS complexes indicative of a complete right bundle branch block (RBBB). Transthoracic echocardiography revealed normal systolic function of both ventricles, normal ventricular wall thickness, an enlarged right atrium and ventricle, slightly smaller left ventricle, two atrial septal defects (ASD; 13 × 19 mm and 5 mm) with multiple left–right shunts, and mild tricuspid regurgitation. There were also heavy prominent trabeculae in the left and right ventricles, predominantly in the apex, and blood flow within the deep intertrabecular recesses suggestive of noncompaction of the ventricular myocardium (NVM). Left ventricular contrast echocardiography also confirmed the diagnosis of NVM by conventional transthoracic echocardiography . Karyotype analysis revealed a normal male 46, XY karyotype with a normal chromosome microarray. Gene testing was performed. Next generation sequencing (NGS) platformion torrent was utilized to perform exome analysis of the genes. The candidate genes were associated with all of the inherited cardiovascular-related diseases, which were selected according to Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM).The gene testing results revealed mutations in the SH3 and PX domains of 2B (SH3PXD2B, c.970G > A), Bardet-Biedl syndrome 2 (BBS2, c.865T > C, and c.1297-1296insertion G), and titin (TTN, c.53149G > A, c.44726T > A, and c.52151A > G) genes as well as some single nucleotide polymorphic variations such as COQ2, MLYCD, AGL, and LRPPRC. In order to relieve his declined exercise tolerance, we performed percutaneous atrial septal defect closure. We performed cardiac catheterization and implanted a 28 mm ASD occluder (Starway Medical Technology, Inc., Beijing). Before occlusion the mean pulmonary artery pressure was 44/25/15 mmHg. Pulmonary hypertension was excluded by both Doppler echocardiography and cardiac catheterization. After the cardiac catheterization, transthoracic echocardiography showed an echo of occluder in the middle of the atrial septum without attached thrombus and residual shunt around it, microscale triSUN, ET AL cuspid regurgitation; LV end-diastolic dimension (EDD) at 36 mm, LV end-diastolic volume (EDV) at 54 mm, and LV ejection fraction (EF) at 68%.
