A 69-year-old woman was referred to our hospital because of progressive headache, nausea, and vomiting for 3 days. In addition, she complained of dizziness and a decrease in appetite. She had neither systemic disease nor history of recent trauma or injury to the head. Her Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) was 13 (E3V4M6) at the emergency department (ED) without notable focal neurological signs. Routine laboratory examination demonstrated normal liver function with no evidence of coagulopathy and thrombocytopenia. Chest radiography showed no remarkable findings. However, emergency computed tomography (CT) of her head revealed a left temporal SDH with slight mass effect and small left temporal bone erosion ( c). Metastasis tumor was highly suspected. The additional diagnostic work up with tri-phasic abdominal CT demonstrated a large right lobe liver tumor compatible with HCC . Examination of the serum tumor markers revealed a marked elevation of α-fetoprotein (3815.14 ng/mL). She was admitted to ICU for observation and further evaluation. The blood test to determine the risk of HCC which is related to virus infection revealed positive for hepatitis C virus antigen. During her second day in the ICU, her consciousness deteriorated significantly. Her GCS dropped from 13 to 8 and her pupils were anisocoric. Emergency brain CT showed an enlargement of the left temporal SDH with significant mass effect  for which an emergency craniotomy for SDH evacuation and removal of metastatic skull tumor were performed. During the operation, a left temporal bone tumor was found to involve the dura causing a dural defect. These findings are compatible with tumor bleeding with hematoma ruptured into subdural space. HCC with skull metastasis was pathologically confirmed using the skull specimen . After operation, the patient regained consciousness and had no neurological deficits. The patient was transferred to the department of oncology for transcatheter arterial chemoembolization for HCC and brain radiotherapy.
