We report a case of a 59-year-old male with a past medical history of cervico-thoraco-lumbar spondylitis who presented to the neurosurgical emergency unit with a threeweek history of sudden onset headaches and facial pain. A clinical examination was performed at the Neurosurgical Clinic of the Emergency County Hospital of Timişoara and completed with a MRI angiographic study at the Neuromed Diagnostic Imaging Centre, Timişoara (Romania), using a 1.5 T MR scanner. In addition to the spinal lesions, MRI angiography showed a left lateral PPTA arising from the cavernous segment of the left ICA and terminating at themiddle third of the BA. A fusiform aneurysm was located at the carotidian part of the PPTA. The length of the PPTA was 26.0 mm and its endoluminal diameter, at its origin at the left ICA, was 1.8 mm. There was narrowing of the lumen of the PPTA for 1.2 mm after which there was a poststenotic dilation, a fusiform aneurysm, which was 8.4 mm in length. The artery traveled another 17.6 mm with an endoluminal diameter of 2.0 mm, taking a medial course to supply the BA. The endoluminal diameter of the left ICA was 5.2 mm. The endoluminal diameter of the BA was 3.3 mm at its attachment to the PPTA. In addition, MRI angiography detailed the following: (1) a tortuous course of both vertebral arteries (VAs) a fusiform enlargement of the left VA and a hypoplastic right VA; (2) posterior cerebral arteries (PCAs) and AICAs that arose from the distal end of the BA; (3) a right PICA that originated from distal third of the BA; (4) a left PICA that originated from the fusiform enlargement of the left VA; and (5) agenesis of the right and left posterior communicating arteries (PCoAs) ( , A–C).
We also report a case of a 31-year-old female with a past medical history of an occipital astrocytoma that was resected seven years ago. The occipital craniotomy left a right supra-and infratentorial porencephalic cavity, which involved the right occipital lobe and both cerebellar hemispheres equally. At three and six years post-surgery, she presented for routine follow-up without tumor recurrence. Clinical examination was performed at the Neurosurgical Clinic of the Emergency County Hospital of Timişoara and MRI angiography at the Neuromed Diagnostic Imaging Centre, Timişoara, using the 1.5 T MR scanner. Imaging revealed extensive temporo-occipital gliotic changes, focal cerebral atrophy and ectasia of the fourth ventricle. The MRI angiography also demonstrated a left lateral PPTA connecting the cavernous part of the left ICA to the distal third of the BA. The left PPTA had a length of 31.0 mm. At its origin, the PPTA had an endoluminal diameter of 3.0 mm and the fusiform aneurysm was located at the carotidian part of the vessel in " S " italic form with a length of 7.6 mm. The vessel maintained a medial course for 23.4 mm with an endoluminal diameter of 2.4 mm before connecting to the BA. The left ICA had an endoluminal diameter of 4.9 mm at the origin of the PPTA. The basilar artery had an endoluminal diameter of 3.6 mm at its medial connection to the PPTA. In addition, MRI angiography detailed the following: (1) an extremely tortuous course of both vertebral arteries (VAs) with a hypoplastic left VA; (2) left and right posterior cerebral arteries (PCAs) that arose from the distal end of BA (3) hypoplastic AICAs; (4) hypoplastic right and left PICAs that originated from the distal third of BA; and (5) agenesis of the left posterior communicating arteries (PCoAs) ( , D–F).
