A 76-year-old man was admitted to our department for an examination of a slowly progressive gait disturbance that he first noticed 2 years previously. He had developed an intracranial hemorrhage at 64 years of age and ischemic stroke at 72 years of age and had received cilostazol (200 mg/day). Thereafter, the patient exhibited no apparent signs of motor deficit. He was aware of mild cardiomegaly for more than 30 years, which did not require treatment. Moreover, he was diagnosed with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, for which he was treated with oral hypoglycemic and antihypertensive drugs. His parents had no histories of specific disease and both died at an advanced age. He had one brother, five sisters, and two children. His brother had diabetes and one of his sisters had a history of stroke. Other than these conditions, the patient had no specific family history of any disease. On admission, he presented with a mild cognitive impairment, reduced motivation, and lower-body parkinsonism, which was defined as a shuffling gait with small steps without laterality, and preserved agility in the upper extremities. There were no specific general findings, such as skin or corneal lesions. The patient did not have either neuropathic or limb pain. A blood test showed mild diabetes (HbA1C: 6.8%) but no dyslipidemia (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, 88 mg/dL; high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, 48 mg/dL; triglycerides, 146 mg/dL). The renal function was within the normal limits (blood urea nitrogen, 14.7 mg/dL; creatinine, 0.9 mg/dL). The serum calcium level was 9.0 mg/dL, and the phosphorus level was 3.2 mg/dL. The cerebrospinal fluid cell count was 0/mm 3 and the protein level was 52 mg/dL. Echocardiography showed mild left ventricular hypertrophy.Brain computed tomography (CT) showed high-density lesions in the bilateral pulvinar areas . The bilateral pulvinar lesions showed a high intensity on T1weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) . Brain MRI also revealed moderate white matter lesions and diffuse mild atrophy of the brain . Brain magnetic resonance angiography showed diffuse mild sclerotic changes and the basilar artery was slightly enlarged and tortuous . The serum α-Gal A level, which was examined for the differential diagnosis of bilateral pulvinar lesions, was 0.027 U/L (measured by Mitsubishi Chemical Medience, Tokyo, Japan; reference value 0.074-0.457). A GLA mutation analysis indicated the p.E66Q mutation in exon 2. The patient was suspected to have variant Fabry disease according to the findings of the low serum α-Gal A level, cardiomegaly, and the pulvinar sign. Although levodopabenserazide (300 mg/day) therapy was administered, no improvement was observed in the patient. Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) [agalsidase alfa (genetic recombination), 0.2 mg/kg, once every 2 weeks] was initiated to control the progression of the symptoms.
The patient showed no adverse reactions to this treatment. During a 1-year follow-up, his gait disturbance did not progress, despite the progression before the initiation of therapy, and his motivation improved.
