A 39-year-old Japanese woman with a six-year history of SLE was admitted to our hospital because of a prolonged high fever. She was diagnosed with SLE at the age of 33, based on the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) revised criteria, 2 characterized by oral ulcers, lymphopenia, and positivity of antinuclear antibodies, anti-Sm antibodies and anti-double-stranded DNA (antidsDNA) antibodies. Oral prednisolone 10 mg daily improved her symptoms and prednisolone 7.5 mg daily was continued as a maintenance dose. On admission, she had a fever of 38 degrees, discoid rash on the left cheek and bilateral lymph nodes swelling in the neck and axilla. Laboratory studies revealed leukopenia (2200 cells/ml, normal 3500– 9200 cells/ml), lymphopenia (297 cells/ml, normal 1500–4000 cells/ml), and an elevation of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESRsuspected, and prednisolone was increased to 50 mg (1 mg/kg) daily. On the third day of admission, she complained of chest pain. She demonstrated ST elevation in all the electrocardiogram leads and slight pericardial effusion on an echocardiogram. She was diagnosed with pericarditis, and the disease activity of SLE was thought not to have been suppressed. She was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone pulse therapy (1 g per day, for three days), followed by prednisolone 50 mg daily and cyclosporine 100 mg daily. Chest pain, fever, discoid rash and lymphadenopathy gradually improved; however, ESR elevation and hypocomplementemia persisted. Meanwhile, she had complained of chronic progressive headache from the 13th day of admission. It was a severe tension headache that felt like she had a tight band across the head and it lasted for several hours. She did not have aura, nausea, vomiting, or sensitivity to light, sound, or smell. There were no abnormal findings on neurological examinations or mental status. Electroencephalography was also normal. However, the possibility of NPSLE was not excluded because of the persistent headache and the serological lupus activity. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a hyperintensity lesion in the right pons on a T2-weighted image (T2WI) ( (a)). On a diffusion-weighted image (DWI), a hyperintensity lesion was found in the right pons ( (b)), indicating a subacute right pontine infarction. Moreover, MRA revealed severe irregular narrowing in the basilar, right vertebral and right posterior cerebral arteries ( (a), 2(c)). In the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) test, the leukocyte count was normal (0 cells/ml, normal less than 5 cells/ml), and protein concentration elevated to 52 mg/dl (normal 15–40 mg/dl), immunoglobulin G (IgG) index elevated to 0.77 (normal less than 0.6), and interleukin (IL)-6 elevated to 7.0 pg/ml (normal 0–4.3 pg/ml). Blood and CSF culture studies were negative. Anti-ribosomal P antibody and serological tests for varicella zoster virus (VZV), herpes simplex virus (HSV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) were all negative. Blood coagulation tests were normal: prothrombin time (PT) 100% (normal 82–150%), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) 25.6 sec (normal 25.5–36.1 sec), fibrin degradation products (FDP) 4.5 mg/ml (normal less than 4.9 mg/ml). Moreover, the activity level of protein C and protein S did not decrease (protein C 194%, protein S 98.3%). There was no evidence of antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) because lupus anticoagulant (1.14, normal less than 1.3), anticardiolipin IgG antibody (8 U/ml, normal less than 10 U/ml) and anticardiolipin-b2-glycoprotein I complex antibody (1.2 U/ ml, normal less than 3.5 U/ml) were within normal limits on repeated testing. Antiphosphatidylserine antibody and anti-phosphatidylethanolamine antibody were also within normal limits. We concluded that the cause of the asymptomatic brain infarction was cerebral large vessel vasculitis associated with NPSLE by reason of severe cerebral arterial narrowing and steroidresistant lupus activity.
