A 58-year-old Chinese woman who was already admitted in hospital for several medical problems (the most immediate being bilateral lower limb ischaemia) was referred to the NeuroOphthalmology Service of the Singapore National Eye Centre on 10 July 2013 because she experienced a sudden loss of vision in her right eye. The loss of vision had persisted for three days. She was on treatment for long-standing hypertension, dyslipidaemia, ischaemic heart disease and atrial fibrillation; she also had endstage renal failure, for which she was receiving haemodialysis. There was no immediate history of fever, weight loss, scalp pain, jaw claudication or other constitutional symptoms; there was also no evidence of any autoimmune disorder. On examination, we found that the patient's right eye vision was reduced to bare perception of hand movements. She had a relative afferent pupil defect, and the significant finding was a right pale swollen optic disc with a retinal infarct in the upper temporal arcuate area ; the retinal arterioles also appeared attenuated . Her left eye was essentially normal with 6/12 vision associated with nuclear sclerosis cataract; the optic disc of the left eye was normal at this stage. A provisional diagnosis of occult GCA associated with AAION was made, and the patient was immediately started on oral prednisolone 1 mg/ kg/day (i.e. 60 mg/day). A temporal artery biopsy was scheduled for the following day. The optic disc swelling was unusual and extreme even for AAION, and the lesion in the retina was considered to be due to a cilioretinal artery infarct. The patient's full blood count showed leucocytosis, with an elevated total white cell count of 12.75 × 10 9 /L. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) was 140 mm/hr, the C-reactive protein (CRP) concentration was 90.8 (normal range 0.2–9.1) mg/L, and there was no thrombocytosis. As the patient's pre-corticosteroid workup was positive for latent tuberculosis, prophylactic isoniazid was prescribed in addition to the multiple medications, which the patient was already taking for her other medical conditions. Temporal artery biopsy revealed a nodular thickened artery. Histological examination of that artery demonstrated considerable calcification in the vessel, and thickening of the media and intima with monocytic inflammatory cells . There was fragmentation within the elastic lamina with inflammatory infiltrate, including the presence of giant cells ; these findings hence being supportive of a diagnosis of GCA. As expected, there was no visual improvement in the affected eye when the disc swelling gradually diminished . However, a week later, the fellow eye showed signs of impending AAION, with sectoral disc swelling superotemporally  and a corresponding inferonasal field defect on the Goldmann visual field. This happened even though the patient was on a high dose of oral corticosteroids (i.e. 1 mg/kg/day). The disc swelling in the second eye gradually resolved over the next six weeks ,ABSTRACT Herein, we report another case of arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy from Singapore, in which the initial optic disc swelling was extreme and the sequential disease resolved because the patient was already on maximum treatment. As the management of this biopsy-proven giant cell arteritis case was complicated by the presence of a number of other medical conditions, including end-stage renal failure, monitoring of the response to treatment proved problematic.with vision maintained at 6/12, no development of disc pallor and no change in the inferior nasal visual field defect. A very gradual taper of the patient's corticosteroids was made over two months, with daily monitoring of her visual status. Only after nearly five months was she discharged from the hospital with a prescription for 10 mg prednisolone daily. At this time, her right eye vision was counting fingers (in the upper temporal quadrant only); her left eye vision remained at 6/12. The patient's right eye disc was flat and very pale without cupping , while the left eye disc was normal and pink with no swelling or cupping . The patient died unexpectedly at home one week following her discharge from the hospital.
