A 56-year-old teacher of Indian origin presented with sudden-onset severe headache followed by vomiting. He was rushed to hospital where a computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of brain was done which showed an ACOM aneurysm on magnetic resonance (MR) angiogram without subarachnoid hemorrhage. The patient was shifted to our center for further management. He was clinically stable and central nervous system (CNS) examination was grossly normal. The patient did not have any risk factors. He had a history of migraine for the past 15 years. CT angiogram (64-slice Somatom Siemens) was done which showed wide-necked ACOM aneurysm . In view of the classic clinical history of severe headache suggesting sentinel bleed from the aneurysm, the patient was past events and could also recognize all his relatives who were visiting him. The opinion of a psychiatrist was sought. The patient was a retired teacher for the last 14 years. He lived with his extended family and reportedly had a good family life without significant social or financial stresses. However, he did report being easily tense, anxious and having a worrier-like pre-morbid personality from a young age, which was corroborated by his wife, and added that he was easily irritable at times about things that he would neither elaborate nor discuss. As part of the evaluation, we undertook a neuropsychiatric evaluation the following day using the neuropsychological battery. The patient showed deficits in free recall, verbal and visual learning memory with retrograde amnesia for recent events. Thus, a working diagnosis of acute stress reaction (ICD-10 F43.2) was made and patient was started on escitalopram, 5 mg at night. As his condition did not improve after two days, an MRI scan of the brain (1.5T Avanto Siemens) was done. Routine MRI sequences like diffusion weighted image (DWI) b-0 and b-1000 (time of repetition (TR) 3800, time to echo (TE) 102, band width (BW) 964, field of view (FOV) 230 Â 230), T1W (TR 550, TE 8.7, FOV 230 Â 230), T2W (TR 5000, TE 126, FOV 208 Â 230) and fluid attenuation inversion recovery (FLAIR) (TR 9000, TE 92, TI 2500, FOV 230 Â 230) were done, along with time of flight (TOF) MR angiogram (TR 25, TE 7.0, bandwidth 100, FOV 153 Â 183). MRI showed lacunar restricted diffusion abnormalities in the bilateral anterior fornix, right side putamen, right peritrigonal region, and left corona radiata . TOF MR angiogram showed normal bilateral anterior cerebral arteries with non-visualization of ACOM aneurysm suggesting complete occlusion . During this post-procedure period, the patient was on intravenous heparin 2500 IU every eight hours (for two days) and after the diagnosis of forniceal infarct, Tab. Ecospirin 150 mg once a day was started. Thus, the final diagnosis of amnesia due to bilateral acute forniceal infarct was made. After three months of follow-up, the patient had near total recovery. He had a repeat neuropsychological assessment using the same test battery, which showed minimal deficits in verbal fluency and
