A fifty-nine-year-old right-handed man, former smoker, with history of chronic alcohol intake, arterial hypertension, mixed hyperlipidemia, two recent left middle cerebral artery ischemic strokes (left temporo-insular and left frontal lacunar infarcts) manifested as right hemiparesis and aphasia, right focal motor seizures, gastric ulcer secondary to excessive use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs for occipital headache was admitted for episodes of PLC started 6 h before admission. The episodes lasted approximately 2 min, consisting of accelerated breathing, emission of guttural, snoring sounds, frowning of the eyebrows, followed by laughter accompanied by motor restlessness of all four limbs; the patient was able to walk with assistance but was unresponsive during these episodes. An additional movie file shows this in more detail . The patient denied any automatisms, loss of consciousness, loss of memory, or altered mental status. He also denies any sense of mirth during these episodes. On admission the patient's home medication were clopidogrel, carbamazepin, gabapentin, pantoprazole, and quinapril. Initial examination was notable for confusion, right upper motor neuron facial weakness, 4/5 right hemiparesis, and a mixed aphasia. Between episodes of PLC there were pauses of about 10 min. The differential diagnosis was made between gelastic seizures and episodes of pathological laughter as manifestation of repeated transient ischemic attacks (TIA's). The pseudobulbar laughter was excluded because the patient didn't present any emotional incontinence outside the pathological laughter episodes. Brain scan showed left temporo-insular and left frontal chronic lacunar infarcts. Electroencephalography (EEG) performed during and after laughter episodes revealed no spikewave activity . Analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid specimen revealed a protein level of 0.3 g per liter, a glucose concentration of 72.8 mg per deciliter, a white blood cells count of 5 per cubic millimeter, polymorphonuclears of 2 per cubic millimeter, monocytes of 3 per cubic millimeter, no red blood cells. Routine laboratory blood test showed elevated uric acid of 8 mg per deciliter, slightly elevated gamma-glutamyl transferase of 57U per liter, increased glucose level of 136 mmol per liter, increased lactate dehydrogenase of 236 mmol per liter, increased triglycerides of 152.3 mg per deciliter, increase white blood cells count of 10 790 per cubic millimeter with increased neutrophils blood count of 8 150 per cubic millimeter, all the other blood tests were normal. The patient was treated initially with clopidogrel, atorvastatin, diazepam and phenytoin during acute PLC episodes and clopidogrel, atorvastatin, carbamazepine 600 mg/day and levetiracetam 1000 mg/day as maintenance treatment, but the PLC episodes continued for 3 days with a shorter duration and a longer period between them. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), performed 5 days after symptoms onset, showed lacunar infarcts localized in the left lenticular-capsular-thalamic area associated with gliotic changes; multiple round lesions in the cortical-subcortical and in the deep white matter bilateral frontal-parietal-occipital, with T2 hyperintensity, T1 isointensity and no diffusion changes (Figs. 2 and 3). Based on symptoms, neurological examination and investigations the diagnosis of PLC as prodromal manifestation of TIA's was made, heparin treatment was started and subsequently PLC episodes disappeared. However the gelastic seizures hypothesis could not be ruled out since EEG may not show spikewave activity if the lesion is subcortical. Therefore the authors decided that antiepileptic treatment should be continued. The patient underwent a cognitive and psychological examination that did not reveal a cognitive dysfunction or a mood disorder. Carotid ultrasound showed non-hemodynamically significant plaque in the left carotid bulb. Transthoracic echocardiography showed moderate degenerative mitral stenosis (mitral valve area = 1.3 cm 2 , mean gradient 8 mmHg), mild mitral regurgitation, dilated left atrium, mild pulmonary hypertension and normal systolic left ventricular function and dimensions. Transesophageal echocardiography revealed, in addition to transthoracic echocardiography, left atrial spontaneous echo contrast (grade 3+), but no thrombus in left atrial appendage. Intra-cardiac defects with right-to-left shunt were also excluded. Some mobile atherosclerotic plaques on ascending aorta and initial part of the aortic arch were present, but no clear arguments for potential embolisation could be sustained. Given the degree of mitral stenosis, anticoagulation with acenocumarol was started, and clopidogrel was continued. Some concerns about this association were raised related to history of superior digestive hemorrhage of the patient, so clopidogrel 75 mg daily was preferred to low dose aspirin. The patient continued treatment with acenocumarol (INR = 2-3), clopidogrel 75 mg/day, atorvastatin 20 mg/day, carbamazepin 600 mg/day, gabapentin 900 mg/day and was discharged fully recovered. A video EEG was performed that showed no spike-waves only slow waves on the right side derivations . A month later the patient started to present multiple left carotid and vertebrobasilar TIA's despite correct anticoagulant treatment (INR in the therapeutic range). These ongoing embolic events led to treatment with mechanical valve replacement, afterwards the patient was completely asymptomatic.
Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this case report and any accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editor of this journal.Submit your manuscript at www.biomedcentral.com/submit
