The patient was a-40-year-old Japanese woman. She was found to have positive antinuclear antibody (speckled pattern, 320 titers), elevated anti-double-stranded (ds) DNA antibody, anti-SS-A antibody and lupus nephritis (type V) when she was 22 years old. Anti-Sm antibody was negative. She was treated with prednisolone 50 mg plus oral CY 50 mg per day. Due to oral CY given for 28 months (the approximately cumulative dose was 43 g), the lupus nephritis resolved and the prednisolone dose could be tapered to 10 mg per day for maintenance. The prednisolone dose was raised to 30 mg per day due to butterfly rash and hypocomplementemia when she was 36. Prednisolone could be tapered again and she was in remission with prednisolone 7 mg plus AZ 100 mg per day. At the age of 40, she was referred to our department dueProteinto transient dysarthria and numbness in the right upper and lower extremities. On admission (day 0), her vital sign and the physical examination were unremarkable, including the neurological examination. Her body weight was 46.2 kg. Results of laboratory investigations are listed in Blood cell counts were within the normal range and anti-phospholipid antibody was negative, however hypocomplementemia persisted.
The brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed multiple high-brightness legions in the right cerebral hemisphere on diffusion-weighted image (DWI) , indicating cerebral infarction in the acute or subacute phase. A narrowing of the flat portion of the right middle cerebral artery was shown on magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) . Initially, atherosclerotic cerebral infarction and TIA weresuspected, and we started anti-thrombin and clopidogrel after consultation with a neurologist. However, she suffered from transient paralysis of the left upper extremity the next day. After starting aspirin, symptoms were resolving, but dysarthria recurred on the 19th day of admission. Brain MRI showed new legions in the callosum on DWI, but the narrowing of the flat portion of right middle cerebral artery had disappeared, indicating reversibility of the vasoconstriction . Aspirin and clopidogrel were switched to amlodipine and cilostazol as stronger vasodilator. Abnormal lesions in the right cerebral hemisphere and callosum on MRI, could not sufficiently explain all symptoms, such as the dysarthria, weakness and numbness in upper and lower extremities. Also, she did not suffer from atrial fibrillation, valvular diseases and arterial sclerosis. We then suspected NPSLE rather than thrombosis or embolic disease. We carried out lumbar puncture and an elevated level of IL-6 in spinal fluid (33.9 pg/mL) was found. The diagnosis of NPSLE was made, and the dose of prednisolone was raised to 10 mg per day. She was discharged on the 32nd day of admission. The brain MRI taken after one month from discharge (day 67) showed the disappearance of lesions in the callosum. We regarded this as the benefit of treatment, but transient weakness recurred about once a week from the next month (day 94). The prednisolone dose was raised to 20 mg per day (day 107), then the symptoms resolved. The IL-6 level in spinal fluid had improved (20 pg/mL) (day 127), but she came to our department complaining of transient weakness and sensory dysfunction in the right upper and lower extremities and dysarthria (day 135). We diagnosed flare of NPSLE due to a new lesion with high signal intensity on DWI, fluid attenuation inversion recovery (FLAIR), T2-weighted image (T2WI) in the right cerebellar hemisphere on brain MRI . The level of IL-6 in spinal fluid remained higher than the normal range (14.9 pg/mL). We measured the level of β2-glycoprotein (β2-GPI) Ab, lupus anticoagulant (LAC) and anti-cardiolipin IgG again to rule out antiphospholipid syndrome. The level of β2-GPI Ab was 1.3> U/mL, LAC was 1.2 and anti-cardiolipin IgG was 1 U/mL. The results were all negative again and antiphospholipid syndrome was ruled out. AZ was raised to 150 mg per day and she was discharged on the 14th day of admission (day 148). However, she was admitted to our hospital due to recurrence of the TIA (day 170). The brain MRI was normal, but the level of IL-6 spinal fluid level was increased to 19.8 pg/mL. Since prednisolone 20 mg plus AZ 150 mg per day was considered to be ineffective, we switched to prednisolone 40 mg plus MMF 2 g per day. After the switch, her symptoms disappeared completely and the prednisolone dose could be tapered to 25 mg per day. She was discharged on the 31st day of admission (day 200). Prednisolone was tapered to 20 mg per day (day 210). The level of IL-6 in spinal fluid showed marked improvement (6.0 pg/ mL) (day 225). At the time of this writing (day 322), her symptoms have not recurred. The clinical course is depicted in
