A 54-year-old male patient with a history of hypertension and smoking presented with a three-month history of recurrent dysarthria and right-side weakness. He first presented in March 2013 with 10 minutes of dysarthria. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed no ischemic changes. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) showed severe stenosis of the left MCA M1 segment. Two months later, he developed another episode of dysarthria with right-side weakness. MRI fluidattenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) imaging showed T2 hyperintensity over the left basal ganglia and corona radiata. Computer tomography angiography (CTA) showed severe left MCA M1 stenosis. The patient was put on dual aspirin and clopidogrel therapy and statins, and his blood pressure was kept below 140/90 mmHg. He had complete motor recovery with mild residual dysarthria. In June 2013, he developed another episode of transient ischemic attack (TIA) of right-side weakness lasting for minutes and was admitted to our hospital. MRI FLAIR did not show any new lesion. Computed tomography perfusion (CTP) showed hypoperfusion over the left frontotemporo-parietal region. Digital subtraction angiogram (a)). The patient refused open bypass surgery and opted for endovascular therapy, which was performed in July 2013. Under general anesthesia and systemic heparinization, with activated clotting time (ACT) aiming for a range of 250–300 seconds, the left MCA occlusion was crossed by a 205 cm 0.014-inch Transend microwire (Stryker, USA) and an Excelsior SL-10 microcatheter (Stryker, USA). Selective injection via the microcatheter showed satisfactory opacification of distal vessels ( (b)
). An exchange length 0.014-inch Transend microwire was advanced to the left M3 segment under a superselective roadmap, and the microcatheter was withdrawn. The diameter of the vessel at the proximal end of the occlusion measured 2.0 mm, and the occlusion measured 7 mm in length. A 2.0 mm Â 10 mm Gateway balloon (Stryker, USA) was inflated with 8 atmospheric pressure (atm) at the site of occlusion. Post-angioplasty angiogram showed flow restoration past the occluded segment and good perfusion of the left MCA territory (Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction (TICI) grade 3), so stenting was not performed ( (c)). Postoperatively, blood pressure was maintained at 100–120/60–80 mmHg. Subcutaneous low-molecular-weight-heparin was given for three days, clopidogrel continued for three months and aspirin was given long term. The patient did not have any recurrence of TIAs or stroke during a 24-month follow-up period. Follow-up CTA showed good left MCA opacification.
A 58-year-old male patient with a history of hypertension and smoking presented with dysarthria and rightside weakness in July 2013. Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) showed left fronto-parieto-temporal hyperintensities. MRA showed severe stenosis of the left MCA M1 segment. The patient was put on aspirin, clopidogrel, atorvastatin and antihypertensives, with full recovery of neurological function. One month later, the patient developed another episode of dysarthria and right-side weakness with recovery. DSA showed left M1 total occlusion. In October 2013, the patient developed a TIA attack of right-side weakness lasting 10 minutes and was admitted to our hospital. CTP showed left fronto-temporo-parietal region hypoperfusion. DSA showed left M1 total occlusion ( (a)), with partial collateral supply from the left posterior cerebral artery leptomeningeal branches. Patient refused open surgery and opted for endovascular treatment. Under general anesthesia and systemic heparinization, an exchange length 0.014-inch Transend microwire and a Prowler-14 microcatheter (Codman, USA) was navigated past the occlusion under roadmap guidance. Selective injection via the microcatheter showed opacification of distal vessels ( (b)). The microwire was then advanced to the left M3 segment and the microcatheter was withdrawn. The diameter of the vessel at the proximal end of the occlusion measured 2.1 mm, and the length of the occlusion was 6 mm. Angioplasty was performed with a 2.0 mm Â 10 mm Gateway balloon. Post-angioplasty angiogram showed restoration of flow across the previously occluded segment with a residual stenosis of 50%. A 4.0 mm Â 20 mm Solitaire stent (EV3, USA) was deployed over the stenotic region. Angiography confirmed satisfactory stent placement and distal perfusion (TICI 3) ( (c) and (d)). Immediate postoperative CT showed no bleed. Postoperatively, blood pressure was maintained at 90–110/60–70 mmHg, subcutaneous low-molecular weight heparin given for three days, clopidogrel was continued for three months and aspirin
