This patient had struggled at school with learning difficulties and developed sensory symptoms in the limbs at age 25 years. She was involved in a car accident at age 31 years, following which she developed mild cognitive symptoms and executive Schematic representation of the colony stimulating factor-1 receptor (CSF1R) gene illustrating new and previously described mutations.Her mother had been treated for alcoholism and was still alive with a number of physical and cognitive problems. Examination revealed a supranuclear gaze palsy and a brisk jaw jerk. There was an asymmetric spastic quadriparesis and left-sided inattention. She was abulic with a frontal subcortical pattern of cognitive impairment. Mini-Mental State Examination was 8/30. Neuroimaging: The first MRI of the brain at age 31 years was reported as showing an acute parietal infarct with restricted diffusion; however, subsequent imaging showed progressive extensive signal change with patches of restricted diffusion and volume loss in the superficial and deep white matter with relative sparing of the subcortical U fibres (see ). There was disproportionate volume loss and T2-weighted hyperintensity of the splenium of the corpus callosum extending to the posterior limb of both internal capsules and corticospinal tracts at the level of the mid brain. There was no abnormal contrast enhancement and MR angiogram was normal. These imaging findings were thought to be suspicious for cerebral vasculitis. CSF examination, nerve conductions studies and echocardiogram were normal. EEG showed generalised background slowing. A right frontal brain biopsy was performed to investigate the possibility of cerebral vasculitis. Neuropathology : Demonstrated well-preserved hexalaminar architecture of the neocortex with no obvious balloon cells . The leptomeninges were unremarkable. In the subcortical white matter, there were frequent eosinophilic axonal swellings, which showed positive labelling for phosphorylated neurofilaments, p62, amyloid precursor protein, amyloid-β ( , G–I) and ubiquitin. Sparse numbers of PAS and CD68 positive pigmented cells were evident in the white matter ( , K, L). Immunostaining for GFAP revealed severe reactive stellate and chronic fibrillar astrogliosis in the subcortical white matter and to a lesser extent in the cortex . In spite of frequent axonal spheroids, myelin pallor or significant reduction in density of axons were not apparent ( , D). There were no α-synuclein , TDP43 or hyperphosphorylated τ positive inclusions in the cortex or white matter, and T lymphocytes and B lymphocytes were very sparse. The patient died suddenly of a massive pulmonary embolus aged 36. Genetic analysis: CSF1R sequencing revealed a novel heterozygous c.1786G>A mutation leading to a V596M substitution in exon 13.
This patient presented at age 47 years with a 2-year history of depression and personality change, including increasing use of illicit drugs. He made reckless financial decisions and became violent at home. Progressive cognitive deterioration followed and within 2 years of presentation he required long-term care. He developed frequent generalised seizures following a right frontal brain biopsy and gradually became mute and uncommunicative. There was no family history of similar illness. On examination, there was upper limb apraxia and a parkinsonian gait with prominent freezing. Later examination findings included severe rigidity in the left upper limb, a rest tremor and stimulus-sensitive myoclonus. Eye movements were affected byslow saccades, visual impersistance and a mild vertical supranuclear gaze palsy. MRI demonstrated extensive symmetrical T2 high signal in the cerebral white matter involving the frontal, parietal and posterior temporal lobes . The lateral and third ventricles were enlarged due to cerebral volume loss. A DaTscan was normal and fluorodeoxyglucose/positron emission tomography scan of the brain demonstrated reduced tracer uptake in the frontal and right parietal lobes. There was no contrast enhancement or diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) positivity and imaging appearances remained stable after 1 year. Neuropathology : A right frontal brain biopsy revealed unremarkable leptomeninges and well-preserved hexalaminar cytoarchitecture of the cortex . Myelin pallor and axonal loss ( , D) were evident in the deeper part of the white matter where frequent axonal spheroids and moderate numbers of pigmented cells were seen. Axonal spheroids contained neurofilaments, amyloid precursor protein and ubiquitin ( –G). Pigmented cells, which showed yellow-brown colour of the cytoplasm on H&E stained sections, showed positive labelling for CD68 . Immunostainings for hyperphosphorylated τ and α-synuclein were negative and amyloid-β immunoreactivity was restricted to some of the axonal spheroids. Genetic analysis: CSF1R sequencing demonstrated a novel heterozygous c.2287G>A mutation resulting in an A763P substitution in exon 19.
The patient developed symptoms at age 42 years. The first symptom was impaired balance and unsteadiness when walking and she was referred to a neurologist for investigation of ataxia. Cognitive symptoms developed over the following 9 months with disinhibition, abulia and short-term memory impairment. Urinary incontinence also developed. There was a family history of a similar illness. The patient's mother died at age 42 years with swallowing, memory and walking difficulties. Two maternal uncles were similarly affected. On examination, there was evidence of a global intellectual decline, with frontal and subcortical predominance. There was mild ideomotor and constructional apraxia. There was a postural and action tremor in the limbs with bilateral Gegenhalten. Neuroimaging: MRI revealed gross white matter signal abnormality and cortical volume loss, more significant in the frontal lobe with thinning of the corpus callosum. The lateral ventricles were grossly dilated secondary to cerebral white matter loss. Follow-up MRI 2 years later showed progression of the frontal lobe white matter lesions. There was no contrast enhancement or DWI-positive lesions. Genetic analysis: CSF1R sequencing revealed a novel heterozygous c.2473G>A mutation causing an E825K substitution in exon 19.
This 45-year-old patient worked as a manager at a hotel and presented with a 1–2-year history of depression and increasing difficulty at work. They had become withdrawn and lost confidence in their ability to solve problems, resulting in being made redundant. The family doctor treated the patient for depression without success.shows frequent axonal swellings in the subcortical white matter (inset). Immunostaining for glial fibrillar acid protein (B) reveals a severe chronic fibrillar and reactive stellate astrogliosis in the subcortical white matter and in the cortex. Immunostaining for myelin basic protein with SMI94 antibody (C) and of axons with SMI31 antibody (D) reveals no apparent myelin or axon loss. SMI31 immunoreactive axonal spheroids are frequent (E) while periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) positive pigmented glial cells (F, red arrowhead) are sparse. Axonal spheroids are positive for p62 (G), amyloid precursor protein (H) and amyloid-β (I), and negative for α-synuclein ( J). Occasional scattered PAS-positive cells in the white matter (K, red arrowhead) show positive labelling for the macrophage lysosome marker CD68 (L). A negative control section (M) highlights the yellow-brown pigment in the cytoplasm of these monocyte-derived cells (brown arrowheads), which appears blue in a negative—complete colour inversion image (N, blue arrowheads). Scale bar: 1 mm in A–D, 10 mm inset in A, 50 mm in E–F, 50 mm in G–N. This patient developed symptoms at the age of 29 years. Initial symptoms included falls, short-term memory loss and brief, epileptiform episodes with staring and non-responsiveness. They suffered steady cognitive decline during the 30s and by age 40 years was significantly dependent and incontinent with frequent generalised seizures. There was no family history of a similar illness. On examination, the right upper limb was held in a flexed dystonic posture with rigidity. Bilateral grasp reflexes and rooting, suck and pout reflexes were present. Lower limb tone was symmetrically increased with sustained clonus and bilateral extensor plantar responses. There was bilateral tremor, bradykinaesia and a festinating gait.shows a mild pallor of the myelin and reduction of axon density towards the deep white matter (separated by a yellow dotted line in D) where frequent axonal spheroids are seen (inset in E). The axonal spheroids label with antibodies for neurofilaments (E), amyloid precursor protein (F) and ubiquitin (G). Increased numbers of CD68 positive microglial cells are present in the deeper white matter (H), which show yellow-light brown cytoplasm on H&E and negative control sections and appear blue when viewed as a negative colour inversion image (insets in H). Scale bar: 1 mm in A–D, 5 mm in E–H, 10 mm insets in E and H. Neuroimaging: MRI showed predominantly anterior periventricular white matter hyperintensities and global cortical atrophy. There was no contrast enhancement or DWI-positive lesions. Follow-up imaging 1 year later was unchanged. Genetic analysis: CSF1R sequencing revealed a heterozygous c.1987G>A mutation causing an E633K substitution in exon 14. This mutation has been reported to cause HDLS previously in a number of reports. 13 DISCUSSION CSF1R mutations are part of a small but growing list of microglia-associated neurodegenerative diseases. While early reports suggested that the mutations had a dominant-negative effect, it has now been shown that CSF1R mutations are loss of function. Mutant CSF1R is expressed on the cell surface and can bind CSF1, form dimers and be internalised. 15 Therefore, heterozygous mutations result in a 75% reduction in active CSF1/CSF1R dimers that can signal normally. Appropriate CSF1R signalling may be essential not only for CNS development, but also for the health of the fully developed brain. Recently it was shown that microglia in the adult brain are actively dependent on CSF1R signalling. Inhibition of signalling through CSF1R was found to lead to the rapid depletion of almost all brain microglia via apoptosis, with repopulation occurring when inhibition was withdrawn. 16 The importance of microglia in maintaining a healthy CNS is increasingly recognised. Interestingly, homozygous mutations in TREM2, another microglial cell surface receptor, cause an early onset dementia, Nasu-Hakola disease. 17 Heterozygous variants in TREM2 are also a significant risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), 18 and genome-wide association studies have linked variants in the microglial receptors CD33 and IRF8 with AD and multiple sclerosis, respectively. 19 20 These findings clearly point to the importance of microglia in the health of the CNS and the need to further study how microglial dysfunction leads to neuronal death. In this study, we found that CSF1R mutations account for approximately 10% of adult onset leukodystrophies in a mixed cohort from the UK, Greece and Ireland. We identified a range of phenotypes, with case 1 presenting with features suggesting a CNS vasculitis; cases 2, 4 and 5 had early and late parkinsonian features; and case 3 had a more classical cognitive phenotype. There are at least 30 different leukodystrophies that can present in adulthood, many of which have similar or even indistinguishable presentations making accurate diagnosis challenging. 9 Presence of axonal spheroids, pigmented cells and white matter degeneration in diagnostic brain biopsies is highly variable, subject to variable regional predilection for pathology, sampling bias and disease stage. Diagnostic brain biopsies should ideally include full thickness of the cortex and underlying white matter to reduce the sampling bias. In many cases, extensive and expensive testing is required to make a diagnosis. Our study confirms previous findings that CSF1R mutations are a relatively common cause of adult onset leukodystrophy and that CSF1R mutations can lead to diverse phenotypes and can mimic many other neurological diseases, including CNS vasculitis. As the phenotype of CSF1R mutations continues to be refined, we recommend that patients who present with a possible CNS vasculitis or undiagnosed adult onset leukodystrophy be screened early for mutations in CSF1R, and this should not be limited to patients with typical neuropsychiatric or parkinsonian presentations. The early detection of a known pathogenic CSF1R mutation may negate the need for a brain biopsy and its associated risks. Early genetic diagnosis in affected individuals will help guide clinician discussions around prognostication, genetic risk in other family members and reproductive counselling in families. In addition, where a brain biopsy has been performed for a suspected CNS vasculitis and a diagnosis not achieved, the biopsy sample should be carefully examined for the presence of axonal spheroids or pigmented glia and consideration given to CSF1R gene sequencing.
