A 47-year-old woman, with no medical history, presented with a Hunt and Hess Grade II subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from a ruptured near-giant 2.2 × 1.7–cm middle cerebral artery (MCA) bifurcation aneurysm . During surgery, appreciation of the complex aneurysm configuration and significant neck atheroma required vertical stacking of multiple clips in tandem to allow obliteration of the aneurysmal sac with reconstruction of the MCA bifurcation. A total of 11 clips were ultimately applied, using primarily fenestrated clips to maximize the closing force along the clip blades (Video 1).During clipping, intraoperative flow measurements with an ultrasonic microvascular flow probe (Charbel MicroFlowprobe, Transonic Systems Inc.) 1 demonstrated a significant reduction of flow in the temporal M 2 branch of the bifurcation, from a baseline flow measurement of 55 ml/min to 14 ml/min. This was felt to be attributable toWith large or giant aneurysms, the use of multiple tandem clips can be essential for complete obliteration of the aneurysm. One potential disadvantage, however, is the considerable cumulative weight of these clips, which may lead to kinking of the underlying parent vessels and obstruction of flow. The authors describe a simple technique to address this problem, guided by intraoperative blood flow measurements, in a patient with a ruptured near-giant 2.2 × 1.7–cm middle cerebral artery bifurcation aneurysm that was treated with the tandem clipping technique. A total of 11 clips were applied in a vertical stacked fashion. The cumulative weight of the clips caused kinking of the temporal M 2 branch of the bifurcation with reduction of flow. A 4-0 Nurolon suture tie was applied to the hub of one of the clips and was tethered to the dura of the sphenoid ridge by a small mini-clip and reinforced by application of tissue sealant. The patient underwent intraoperative indocyanine green videoangiography as well as catheter angiography, which demonstrated complete aneurysmal obliteration and preservation of vessel branches. Postoperative angiography confirmed patency of the bifurcation vessels with mild vasospasm. The patient had a full recovery with no postoperative complications and was neurologically intact at her 6-month follow-up.
