A 35-year-old overweight man [height: 157 cm, body weight: 71 kg, body mass index (BMI): 28.1 kg/m 2 ] with a history of early-onset hypertension starting at 29 years of age who was currently under treatment with valsartan and nifedipine (dosage unknown) presented to the emergency department with a hypertensive emergency associated with dysarthria and right-sided hemiparesis. His blood pressure was 240/140 mmHg at presentation following medication non-compliance for two weeks. According to his medical record, his regular baseline blood pressure was controlled at approximately 140/80 mmHg with medication. A head CT scan revealed acute intracranial hemorrhage in the pontine and right cerebellum . Intravenous glycerol was administered to prevent cerebral edema, with the continuous infusion of nicardipine (5 μg/min/kg) to control the patient's blood pressure. The nicardipine infusion was subsequently switched to oral azelnidipine and doxazosin on the second day, and the azelnidipine was switched to oral nifedipine on the third day . The patient was maintained on an nil per os (NPO) status with intravascular hydration (2,400 mL/ day) for three to four days after admission, then started on a sodium-restricted diet with hydration by mouth ad libitum. His neurological symptoms gradually improved from an National Institute of Health (NIH) stroke scale (NIHSS) score of 4 to 0 on day 14, without any residual symptoms. Due to the detection of early-onset hypertension, hypokalemia (2.7 mEq/L) and slight metabolic alkalosis (pH 7.46, HCO3 26 mmol/L, base excess 2.2 mmol/L) on the first day of admission, we considered a diagnosis of secondary hypertension due to PA. An unenhanced CT scan showed a 10mm right adrenal mass ( , arrow) with low attenuation (2 Hounsfield Units), indicating a lipid-rich structure consistent with a cortical adenoma (10). In contrast to our expectations, endocrinology tests performed on hospital day 2  showed a PRA of 15.0 ng/mL/hr, PAC of 11.3 ng/dL and ARR of 0.75, which are not consistent with a diagnosis of PA. However, follow-up ARR tests showed a gradual increase in this parameter, which is consistent with PA. On day 12, the PRA decreased to 1.9 ng/mL/hr, the PAC increased to 19.3 ng/dL and the ARR increased to 10.2. On day 20, the PRA was 0.8 ng/mL/hr, the PAC was 23.2 ng/dL and the ARR was 29.0 . In addition to renin-aldosterone profiles, we determined the levels of catecholamines and their metabolites in the plasma and urine. Consequently, the morning plasma noradrenaline and dopamine (day 2) and urinary noradrenaline, dopamine and normetanephrine (day 7) levels were each elevated within
