The patient was a 39-year-old man who was diagnosed as tuberculous pleurisy at age 30, and then was treated with standard anti-tubercular drugs for 6 months, but clinical follow-up was not carried out after alleviation of his symptoms. No history of hypertension was recorded. He had nonspecific headache one month ago, but no * Correspondence: hongdaojun@hotmail.com Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Yong Wai Zheng Street 17#, Nanchang 330006, P.R. China attentions were paid. He was admitted to our hospital with right paresis, headache and vomiting for one hour. On admission, his blood pressure was 130/80 mmHg. He had slightly slurred pronunciation; muscle strength was 4/5 grade (MRCS, grades 0–5) in the right limbs; and slight hearing loss was found on the right side. Neck stiffness and Kerning sign were also observed. Cerebral computed tomography (CT) revealed hemorrhage in the left posterior horn of lateral ventricle and subarachnoid space . At the same time, a nodular mass with slightly high density was observed at the right ventral surface of the pons . After treatments for decreasing intracranial pressure by mannitol and anti-vasospasm by nimodipine for 10 days, the patient felt great alleviation of headache. CT scan showed hemorrhage almost disappeared , but the nodular mass still was unchanged . Cerebral CT angiography underwent on day 2 after admission revealed no aneurysm and vascular malformation, but there were obvious enhancement of lesions at the right ventral surface of the pons, right temporal tip, and tentorium of cerebellum (Additional file 1: ). However, on day 15 after admission, he suddenly suffered from severe headache and recurrent vomiting. No fever and bellyache was observed. To exclude the possibility of rehemorrhage, cerebral CT was performed again. No hematoma was found , but the nodular mass became more prominent accompanying abnormal density in the tentorium of cerebellum . Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple abnormal patchy signals with marked enhancement distributing in bilateral cerebellopontine angle cistern ( , b), suprasellar cistern, ambient cistern, quadrigeminal cistern , bilateral cerebellum , cerebral hemisphere , and upper cervical cord surface . Susceptibility weighted imaging (SWI) showed the hemorrhagic lesion located at the in-depth of left calcarine fissure , which was confirmed by the axial  and coronal  enhanced MR imaging. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy revealed that the peak of Nacetylaspartate decreased, while the peak of choline was significantly elevated. Based on the clinical features and radiological changes, several possible diseases such as tuberculous meningitis, fungal infections, meningeal neoplasm, metastases, and vasculitis were taken into consideration. So a series of examinations were further carried out. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination revealed that the number of the nucleated cells was 4 cell/ ul; glucose level was 3.5 mmol/L (concomitant blood glucose 4.7 mmol/L); chlorine level was 115 mmol/L; and protein level was 2343 mg/L. Additional CSF examinations including latex agglutination test, ink stain, and modified acid fast staining were negative. Many neutrophils without malignant cells were observed in CSF cytology. No neoplasm was found by thoracoabdominal CT. Positron emission tomography (PET) scan showed an increased uptake in the right parietal lobe, left frontallobe, right temporal lobe, and bilateral cerebellum. Laboratory examinations revealed serum tumor biomarkers (AFP, CEA, CA199, CA125, CA153, CA724, PSA, NSE and Cyfra21-1), blood routine, thyroid function, extractable nuclear antigen polypeptide spectrum, and anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody were normal. T-spot test was positive. After tuberculous meningoencephalitis and fungal infections were excluded, intravenous dexamethasone (20 mg for 7 days and then 10 mg for 3 days) was started on day 20 after admission, but no clinical improvement was observed. On day 36 after admission, second CSF examination was performed. Results showed nucleated cells count was 8 cells/uL; glucose level was 3.39 mmol/L (concomitant blood glucose 5.37 mmol/L); chlorine level was 116 mmol/L; and protein level was 1787 mg/L. Malignant cells also were not found in cytology. His situation showed no signs of improvement and gradually worsened daily. After a written consent signed by patient's wife, a needle biopsy of the lesion in the left frontal lobe was performed on day 46 after admission. On day 3 after biopsy, he died from cerebral hernia owing to intractable intracranial hypertension. Pathological examination revealed that numerous spindled cells were scant of cytoplasm with hyperchromatic nuclei and various mitotic figures ( , b). Necrosis and vascular endothelial proliferation were not observed. Immunohistochemistry showed that the tumor cells were positive to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)  and S-100 protein. The timorous lesion was negative to CD34, epithelial membrane antigen, progesterone receptor, and vimentin. Ki-67 labeling indicated about 5 % index of proliferation . The pathological findings were consistent with the diagnostic criteria of anaplastic astrocytoma (WHO grade III).
The features of cerebral MRI. MRI showed multiple abnormal patchy signals with marked enhancement in bilateral cerebellopontine angle cistern (a, b, arrow), quadrigeminal cistern (c, arrow), bilateral cerebellum (d, arrow), cerebral hemisphere (e, arrow), and upper cervical cord surface (f, arrow). SWI showed the hemorrhagic lesion located at the in-depth of left calcarine fissure (g, arrow), which was confirmed by the axial (h, arrow) and coronal (i, arrow) enhanced MR imaging Written informed consent was obtained from the patient's wife for publication of this case report and any accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editor of this journal.
