The intention is not to make inferences about statistical outcomes from anecdotal cases but rather to highlight some of the ways that asymptomatic carotid stenosis comes to attention in general practice.
An ophthalmologist ordered carotid ultrasonography for an asymptomatic 70-year-old woman after noting a small asymptomatic left retinal scar. Stenosis (60%-79%) was found in the opposite (right) carotid. The ophthalmologist recommended carotid surgery. The patient had a history of well-controlled hypertension and hyperlipidemia and had smoked heavily until 10 years previously. After learning from her primary care physician that clinical trials of carotid endarterectomy revealed no benefit in asymptomatic women, she continued medical management, which included antihypertensive therapy, aspirin, and a statin. Three years later, she developed symptomatic 3-vessel coronary disease, suitable for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). The thoracic surgeon performed carotid ultrasonography again, which now revealed right carotid stenosis of 80% to 99%, and strongly recommended sequential carotid endarterectomy (before CABG) or a combined procedure. The patient declined endarterectomy based on an updated discussion with her primary care physician. She underwent successful CABG without carotid revascularization and remains stroke free 10 years after original discovery of the carotid stenosis. A woman had a long history of heavy smoking, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and coronary artery disease but no history of cerebrovascular events; her medications included antihypertensive drugs, aspirin, and a statin. At the age of 72 years, her cardiologist noted bilateral carotid bruits and performed carotid ultrasonography, which revealed bilateral high-grade stenosis (80%-99%). He recommended vascular surgery consultation for endarterectomy. After discussing the potential benefits and harms of this procedure with her primary care physician, she decided not to consult the surgeon. Eight years later, she remains stroke free.
A 75-year-old woman had a long history of hyperlipidemia and labile hypertension but no history of symptomatic coronary or cerebrovascular disease. One of her family members read about carotid artery disease and stroke prevention and scheduled the patient to see a vascular surgeon known to perform carotid surgery. The surgeon performed carotid ultrasonography, which revealed unilateral stenosis greater than 80%. He told the patient that her 1-year stroke risk was 25% and strongly urged her to undergo surgery. She consulted her primary care physician, who disputed the surgeon's estimate of her stroke risk. However, she elected to follow the surgeon's advice and underwent carotid endarterectomy without complications; she remains stroke free 2 years later.In one prospective but nonrandomized study, 15 intensive medical therapy (compared with less intensive therapy) was associated with a lower prevalence of microemboli detectable by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography and a lower rate of stroke.
