A 58-year-old woman experienced subarachnoid hemorrhage and underwent clipping of an ICA aneurysm in 1983. Follow-up angiography was performed in 2008 because the patient was complaining of recurrent headaches. The examination revealed the dome of a " daughter " aneurysm, which had formed between the clip and the parent vessel. The patient decided to have this residual aneurysm treated and insisted on intravascular embolization. A coil was placed in the aneurysm, but immediatelyafter release it moved to the trunk of the MCA, and all attempts at evacuation via an endovascular route proved unsuccessful. Absence of blood flow in the MCA was confirmed with contrast injection ( left). The patient was immediately transferred to the operating theater under continuous anesthesia. The former pterional craniotomy was reconstructed, and the sylvian fissure was opened. The next steps corresponded to the procedure described in Case 1, and the coil was successfully extracted through an incision of the ATA. However, in contrast to the former case, no outflow of blood was obtained from the MCA after releasing the clips. Therefore, a 2-mm incision was made in the MCA, close to its branching off from the ICA, and a ball-tipped microprobe was introduced into the artery in both directions—peripheral and proximal—to a depth of several centimeters. The artery was stretched to its sides with gentle rotating movements, which yielded a slow outflow of blood. The incision was sutured with 10–0 intermittent stitches, and 1 ml of rtPA solution was injected into the stem of the ICA (with subsequent oozing of blood from the operating field, easily controlled after rinsing with saline). During this time, the ICA aneurysm was prepared and secured. The trunk and the branches of the MCA were checked with intraoperative Doppler ultrasonography to confirm a stable, although low-amplitude, flow. The patient was transferred directly from the operating theater to the neurosurgical ICU, where she was put under " prophylactic " coma with propofol. After recovery from the coma, she was conscious and presented with moderate hemiparesis. When she was discharged, on the 14th day after the procedure, she was able to walk (with mild hemiparesis), live independently, and scored 4 and 2 on GOS and mRS, respectively. A follow-up CT examination revealed a significant hypodense zone in the posterior part of the frontal lobe and anterior part of the temporal lobe . Unfortunately, the patient did not present for the follow-up angiographic examination that was scheduled for 6 months after the discharge.
A 39-year-old man presented with migraine attacks and symptoms of atherosclerosis. Cerebral angiography revealed a right-side fusiform aneurysm involving the C 4 – C 7 segments of the ICA and a proximal part of the M 1 segment of the MCA. Notably, neither the A 1 segment nor the posterior communicating artery (PCoA) were visualized after injection of contrast to the right ICA . After discussing the available options with the patient, a decision was made to place a flow-diverter stent, matched to the length of the aneurysm, via an intravascular route. When placed, the stent uncurled only partially in its proximal end, and all attempts at uncurling it with an inflated balloon and extracting it with intravascular manipulators (Lasso retrieval microcatheter, Alligator retrieval device) not only proved unsuccessful but pushed the stent even more peripherally, up to the proximal part of the M 1 section. After injecting contrast medium into the right ICA, we observed persistent albeit severely restricted blood flow in the MCA . After the contrast agent was injected into the right vertebral artery, no flow in the PCoA was documented but peripheral branches of MCA were shown to be supplied with a slow influx from the posterior temporal artery. Therefore, facing an anatomical variant of the ICA devoid of both communicating arteries and having estimated the peripheral anastomosis to be insufficient, a decision was made to remove the material by an incision of the vessel. The patient was moved to the operating theater under continuous anesthesia. Pterional craniotomy was performed and the sylvian fissure was opened according to standard practice. It was determined that a tortuous, distended intracranial portion of the ICA continued directly on to the proximal part of the M 1 , with no visible trace of the A 1 segment and with an aplastic PCoA. No shape or exact position of the stent within the artery was discernible by visual examination, nor by palpation with instruments. Thus a 4-mm incision of the M 1 segment was performed with no proximal clipping of the artery. With blood outflow relatively easily controlled by suction, the stent was placed with a ball-tip microprobe. This proved more difficult than anticipated, because the unfolded stent was partially buried within the intimal folds of the aneurysmal wall. Eventually, the network of the stent was identified and bent, which allowed its gradual removal throughout the incision . The incision was closed using 10–0 single sutures, the wall of the aneurysm was reinforced with TachoSil (Takeda), and 1 ml of rtPA solution was injected into the stem of the ICA. Pulsating blood flow in the ICA and MCA was confirmed with intraoperative Doppler ultrasonography. After the procedure, the patient was transferred directly to the neurosurgical ICU where propfol-induced coma was substituted for general anesthesia. After propofol withdrawal, the patient was awake, with moderate right hemiparesis, which gradually faded away within days. At discharge, the patient was neurologically intact and scored 5 on the GOS and 0 on the mRS. Cerebral angiography performed 6 months after the craniotomy revealed the presence of normal blood flow in the MCA . A follow-up CT examination showeda hypodense zone, about 2 cm in diameter, in the anterior part of the temporal lobe .
