History and Examination A 2-year-old boy presented to the neurosurgery service for treatment of a traumatic basilar artery pseudoaneurysm. At the age of 14 months, he was involved in an unrestrained motor vehicle accident. On admission to the emergency department, he was intubated. A neurological examination revealed reactive pupils bilaterally. His brainstem reflexes were intact, and he moved all extremities purposefully. The patient's only significant initial imaging study was a head CT scan, which revealed acute subarachnoid hemorrhage of the suprasellar, ambient, and quadrigeminal plate cisterns and minimally displaced longitudinal and transverse fractures of the right temporal bone with a longitudinal component also involving the right petrous apex and right aspect of the clivus. There were additional fractures of the right zygomatic process, left parietal bone, greater wing of the right sphenoid bone, and lateral right orbit; and diastasis of the left lambdoid suture and occipital base sutures. A CT angiogram revealed a distal basilar artery aneurysm/pseudoaneurysm measuring 4 × 2 mm . The patient underwent repeat imaging, which revealed interval growth of the pseudoaneurysm to 7 × 6 mm . The patient spent 10 weeks in the hospital recovering from his injuries. His postinjury sequelae included cortical blindness, hydrocephalus requiring a ventriculoperitoneal shunt, and status epilepticus, which was successfully treated with levetiracetam. Tracheostomy and percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tubes were placed, and the patient was discharged to a long-term rehabilitation facility. Neurological examination at hospital discharge demonstrated attention to verbal cues and smiling. He displayed intentional movements of the right upper and right lower extremities; there was only minimal movement on the left side. The patient's follow-up visit included CT scanning and CT angiography of the brain, which showed a significant increase in the size of the basilar pseudoaneurysm to 21 × 17 mm . A diagnostic cerebral angiogram verified the findings . Given the rapid rate at which the aneurysm had grown, the neurosurgical team thought it imperative to treat the aneurysm. Preoperatively the neurological examination revealed that the boy was alert and smiling and in no acute distress. The patient's right pupil was sluggish to light, while the left pupil was fully reactive to light. He had good movement in his right upper and bilateral lower extremities. There was weakness in his left upper extremity. His sensation appeared intact. Treatment The patient was taken to the operating room for planned surgical clipping of the aneurysm. He was intubated without difficulty, and a bispectral index monitor was placed on his forehead. A left femoral arterial line was placed for intraoperative angiography. A 5-F right femoral venous sheath was placed, through which a 4-F multipole electrophysiological catheter (St. Jude Medical) was passed. The catheter was advanced to the cardiac right ventricular apex under fluoroscopic guidance, and a ventricular pacing threshold of less than 1 mA was achieved at a 2-msec pulse with the aid of a programmable cardiac stimulator (5328 Programmable Stimulator, Medtronic Inc.). Chest wall cutaneous defibrillation patches were placed for possible rescue defibrillation. High output pacing (5 mA at 10msec pulse width) was used to ensure ventricular capture at very rapid rates. During pacing and capture at 300 bpm, a desirable mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) of 23 mm Hg was achieved. The patient was cooled passively to 33°–34°C. Motor and sensory evoked potential leads were placed to monitor brainstem activity. There was weakness on the left side, compatible with the patient's clinical baseline status. The patient was then placed in a semilateral position with the head turned to the left in a Mayfield pin fixation system. A right reverse question mark incision was made. The temporalis muscle was carefully elevated out of the middle fossa. A zygomatic osteotomy was performed to allow the muscle to retract inferiorly. A frontotemporal craniotomy was performed, followed by an extradural clinoidectomy. The dura was opened and tacked anteriorly. The brain appeared relaxed, which was aided by intraoperative mannitol and the patient's ventriculoperitoneal shunt. The sylvian fissure was significantly scarred from the initial trauma but was carefully opened to separate the frontal and temporal lobes. The temporal lobe was elevated, and the edge of the tentorium was dissected to the incisure. The fourth cranial nerve was identified and protected. The third cranial nerve was identified and followed posteriorly. At one point the third cranial nerve was difficult to visualize, as it was tightly stretched over the dome of the aneurysm. To extend the proximal exposure, the trochlear and oculomotor canals were opened to the posterior edge of the cavernous sinus. The tentorium was then incised and tacked up. The aneurysm was identified but was difficult to dissect due to scarring from the initial trauma caused by the motor vehicle accident. The patient underwent RVP for 40 seconds, allowing the surgeons to dissect free the dome of the aneurysm and safely dissect pontine perforators away from the aneurysm. This was repeated 4 more times with the length of pacing ranging from 34 to 45 seconds. The patient tolerated RVP, returning to sinus rhythm and baseline MABP levels spontaneously. The repetitive cycles of RVP enabled dissection of the aneurysm to the level of the basilar artery. The surgeons identified the normal basilar artery, proximal to the dome of the aneurysm. The patient underwent a fifth RVP for 74 seconds, allowing the surgeons to dissect the posterior cerebral arteries (PCAs), visualize the right P 1 and P 2 segments, and identify both superior cerebellar arteries (SCAs). Of note, the wall of the aneurysm was very thin with translucent areas, consistent with a pseudoaneurysm. After extensive dissection made possible by RVP, a clip was placed across the base of the aneurysm. The clip was then repositioned with the aid of RVP for 55 seconds. Sinus rhythm and MABP returned to baseline spontaneously. An intraoperative angiogram revealed less flow compared with the previous angiogram. The large size of the aneurysm made PCA and SCA visualization difficult, and, thus, the aneurysm was opened and the clot within the aneurysm was resected with the aid of a Cavitron Ultrasonic Aspirator (CUSA). The clip was repositioned one last time, utilizing RVP for 67 seconds. Ventricular fibrillation occurred and sinus rhythm returned after electric defibrillation. With the aid of an intraoperative Doppler ultrasound probe, the surgeons verified bilateral PCA flow of the P 1 and P 2 segments as well as SCA flow. Hemostasis was obtained, the dura was closed, and the bone was replaced with absorbable plates. The zygoma was secured with screws, and the temporalis and fascia were elevated to the superior temporal line. The wound was then closed in layers.
