A 42 year-old male presenting to the hospital with sudden onset of headache and neurologic symptoms gave a history of having been the 3-point seat belt restrained driver of a passenger vehicle few hours earlier in the day. While driving in city traffic he had to make a sudden hard braking maneuver in order to avoid a collision with another vehicle. There was no contact between the vehicles, and no contact between the driver and the interior of the vehicle. Immediately after the incident he complained of neck pain and within a few hours he developed severe occipital headache with increasing neurologic symptoms (cramps and increasingly depressed level of consciousness, i.e., obtunded). He was hospitalized and computed tomography (CT) with contrast agent of the cerebrum revealed only changes to the caliber of the distal part of the left internal carotid artery (ICA) with no certain aneurysmal changes. Clinically, he was sedated and intubated, the ciliary and corneal reflexes could not be elicited and the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score descended from 14 to 10 within the first hour of admission. On the following day his GCS had descended to three. A second CT with contrast agent was performed which showed an irregular aneurysmal defect presumed to be caused by a dissection of the left ICA  with SAH, and the lesion was surgically treated with a stent. Over the following days, additional CT showed a pseudo-aneurysmal defect in the intracranial part of the left ICA with mural thrombus formation and inadequate resolution of the intracranial bleeding. Furthermore, there was extension of the bleeding into the brain tissue in the left parietal and temporal lobe, and after 8 days of hospitalization the patient died. Medicolegal autopsy revealed sequelae following cranial surgery (two drill holes), extensive SAH, and pooling of blood surrounding the cerebral arteries . There was mild widespread arteriosclerosis, primarily in the abdominal aorta, but otherwise no signs of significant disease. A correctly placed stent was identified in the left intracranial ICA . Macroscopic evaluation of the cerebral vessels was difficult due to extensive hemorrhage. Microscopy of the left ICA was performed. In the intracranial part, prior to its entry into the Circle of Willis, focal intimal thickening was present with areas of thrombus formation in relation to the stent, and fresh dissecting subintimal bleeding . A loose fragment of hyalinized tissue without elastic lamina was identified representing either a pseudo-aneurysm or an aneurysm, with discrete bleeding and associated early degeneration, granulocyte infiltration and fibroblast growth along the edges . Tissue removed from the stent contained collections of erythrocytes, fibrin, and granulocytes and an area of mononuclear cells along the edges. In the extracranial part of the ICA there was dissecting bleeding in the tunica media with signs of decay. There were no iron deposits in these areas except for a small part in the tunica adventitia. Post-mortem CT was in agreement with the antemortem descriptions showing the location of the stent and extensive SAH with widespread intracerebral bleeding and midline shift and offered no additional information . The cause of death was incarceration due to subarachnoid hemorrhage with complicating intracerebral bleeding. The initial bleeding was secondary to dissection and subsequent pseudo-aneurysm formation of the left ICA assumed to be due to the sudden braking maneuver. Previous medical history revealed a history of hypertension for which the deceased did not wish to receive medical treatment, and he was administered
