A 74-year-old male patient was admitted to the emergency department with a 3-h history of left-sided hemiplegia and atrial fibrillation on electrocardiography. Further questioning revealed a history of chronic cardiac atrial fibrillation and low ejection fraction of 35 %; he was not consistently adhering to his anticoagulation medication regime. Non-contrast cranial computed tomography (CT) on admission showed no bleeding, while a right middle cerebral artery (MCA) M1 occlusion was found by CT angiography (CTA). He was put on intravenous (IV) t-PA and was referred for endovascular stroke treatment by digital subtraction angiography (DSA). An 8Fr balloon guiding catheter (Corail, Balt, France) was inserted into the internal carotid artery (ICA) at the cervical segment, and the right MCA M1 segment occlusion reached with the aid of a Rebar TM 2.7Fr microcatheter (ev3, Covidien) and Traxess 0.014 inch microguidewire (Micro Vention, Tustin, CA, USA) . The first recanalization attempt was unsuccessful, which necessitated a second retriever stent delivery. After reaching the occlusion site, the Solitaire AB thrombectomy stent (5 9 30 mm; Covidien) was distally unsheathed and allowed 4 min to deploy. While drawing the deployed retriever stent, resistance to withdraw was noticed and we partially resheathed the stent into the delivery microcatheter to free the stent where it was S. Akpinar Á G. Yilmaz (&) Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, Near East University Hospital, Nicosia, North Cyprus, Turkey e-mail: glz.yilmaz@hotmail.com S. Akpinar e-mail: akpinarsuha@hotmail.com entangled. During this maneuver, the thrombectomy stent spontaneously detached . Following control runs, the thrombus progressed from the occlusion at the MCA medioinferiorly to the distal ICA segment without responding to two consecutive infusions of abciximab (a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist; 2 ml diluted in 10 cc saline) . Because there was no recanalization at the occlusion site and access distal to the detached stent with the micro guidewire was not achieved, the proximal branch of the MCA was catheterized and another Solitaire stent was deployed to capture the first stent. After two unsuccessful attempts through the MCA route, the right anterior cerebral artery (ACA) A1 segment was catheterized. The distal markers of the second stent deployed at the ACA A1 segment caught the proximal strands of the detached first stent, and removal of both stents was achieved using the 8Fr guiding catheter . After this maneuver, the occluded MCA M1 segment was recanalized, resulting in a thrombolysis in cerebral ischemia (TICI) score of 2b ( –B). The patient was kept in an intensive care unit because of poor oxygen saturation. A CT after 6 h showed a non-progressive European Cooperative Acute Stroke Study (ECASS) HI type 2 hemorrhage at the right putamen, and a right MCA repeat stroke, which was assumed due to atrial fibrillation and low ejection fraction .
