Case 1 A 78-year-old man was admitted to D1 with an abrupt onset of headache: at neurological examination, the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies (WFNS) score was 3. CT and angio-CT scan on admission showed a Fisher 4 acute SAH with blood in the Sylvian fissure bilaterally and intraventricularly . Forty-eight hours later, four-vessel cerebral DSA demonstrated a 1.7 mm right MCA BBA, not shown previously on the angio-CT scan with 3D reconstructions. The BBA was located on the wall above the trifurcation of the MCA and bore some resemblance to a spade , there were no other vascular malformations. On the basis of the DSA findings, after case discussion with vascular neurosurgeons, endovascular treatment was opted for: under general anesthesia and intraoperative anticoagulation with 3000 IU of heparin, a 6 F Envoy guiding catheter (Cordis Neurovascular) was placed in the right internal carotid artery. Using a microguide (Transed EX Soft-Tip, Stryker), the microcatheter (Excelsior SL-10, Stryker) was positioned at the base of the aneurysm. From here, only one coil (Deltapaq Microcoils 1.5×4 mm, Micrus Endovascular Corporation) was placed, very gently, achieving complete occlusion of the aneurysm's sac ( , d). At the final control, there were no alterations.SM smoker, S history of SAH Due to ventricular dilatation noted on the post-angiogram CT control, the patient was sent to the operating room where an external ventricular drainage was applied. He was then transferred to the ward. There were no significant events in the following days, and the patient experienced a good recovery. During hospitalization, he underwent three CT scan controls which showed progressive reduction of the SAH. The external ventricular drainage was first closed, on day 12, and then removed, on day 14. On day 16, during the night, the patient suddenly developed anisocoria and lost consciousness. He was sent urgently for a CT scan, which showed a new subarachnoid bleed; the patient died soon after (mRS 6) . Case 2 A 24-year-old man arrived in D2 suffering from an unusual headache of sudden onset, which raised the suspicion of a SAH. After the basis of the history and physical examination, the WFNS score was 2. The patient therefore underwent a CT scan, which showed a subarachnoid clot, mainly on the left side and in the Sylvian fissure, more than 1-mm thick (Fisher grade 3). This led to a detailed study of the left MCA. An angio-CT was performed, but the images did not reveal an aneurysm or any other vascular abnormalities. However, DSA did detect a small (1.5 mm) bulge arising 1 mm above the bifurcation of the left MCA , which was the likely cause of the bleeding. On the day after the onset of SAH, the patient underwent surgical exploration: at the MCA bifurcation, close to the clot, an area of the vessel wall appeared extremely thin and transparent. With the aid of temporary clipping, the bifurcation was wrapped with temporal muscle and biological two-component fibrin glue (Tissucol, Baxter Healthcare Corp., Deerfield, IL, USA) . The patient had an excellent postoperative course. On the 13th day after this first operation, the patient underwent control DSA; the lesion was unchanged . For this reason, after case discussion with vascular neurosurgeons, endovascular treatment was opted for. Following premedication with acetylsalicylic acid (200 mg for 3 days), under general anesthesia and intraoperative anticoagulation with 3000 IU of heparin, a 6 F Envoy guiding catheter (Cordis Neurovascular) was placed in the left internal carotid artery. Using a microguide (Synchro 14, Stryker), the microcatheter (Marksmann, Covidien) was positioned above the bifurcation. From here, a 2.5×16 mm PED (Covidien) was placed, to cover the neck, from left M2 to M1 ( , e). The angio controls showed a slight slowdown on the M4 part vessels; for that reason, an intra-arterial infusion of 10 mg abciximab was given, with optimal results. The patient tolerated both procedures well and was discharged in excellent condition with no neurological deficits (mRS 0). Postoperative angiographic studies were performed 16 and 18 months after, and no sign of aneurysm of the MCA was seen  Case 3 A 44-year-old man suffering from headache and vomiting was referred to D1. The physical examination and symptoms were suggestive of a SAH (WFNS score 2). A CT scan was performed and showed a subarachnoid clot, predominantly on the right Sylvian fissure, less than a 1-mm thick (Fischer grade 2), which was indicative of a bleed arising from the MCA . Angio-CT did not show the presence of an aneurysm, whereas DSA, performed the following day, revealed a small aneurysm (1.8 mm), with a triangular shape andbroad base, 2 mm above the bifurcation of the MCA . It was decided to attempt a surgical treatment. A right fronttemporal craniotomy was performed and, after exposing the aneurysm, a curved clip was applied. At surgical exploration, the MCA seemed to have a thin adventitia. The vessel was coated with temporal muscle and biological two-component fibrin glue (Tissucol, Baxter Healthcare Corp., Deerfield, IL, USA). The patient did well initially, and during the postoperative follow-up, the patient showed no signs of cerebral complications, either re-bleeding or vasospasm. A DSA control was scheduled, but on day 14 after the operation, the patient developed acute respiratory failure with positive blood culture and died (mRS 6).
