History and Examination A 12-year-old boy with no medical history presented to his pediatrician with 5 days of progressive headache and double vision. He was examined by an ophthalmologist, who noted a left sixth cranial nerve palsy and ordered MRI/MR angiography that showed a large mass adjacent to his left ICA that was suspicious for a cerebral aneurysm. The boy was sent to the Emergency Department at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, where a CT scan and CT angiography were performed, which showed no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage and the presence of a partially thrombosed giant left cavernous ICA aneurysm measuring 3.8 × 3.7 cm . The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), and scheduled for an elective cerebral angiogram. On the morning of the angiogram, he developed worsening of his sixth cranial nerve palsy, and a new complete third cranial nerve palsy. An emergency head CT scan demonstrated no subarachnoid hemorrhage and increased hyperdensity within the lumen of the aneurysm. Following the CT scan, the patient underwent a cerebral angiogram that revealed spontaneous occlusion of the left ICA, with no filling past the petrous segment and no filling of the giant aneurysm. The patient supplied his left middle cerebral artery (MCA) and anterior cerebral artery (ACA) through a patent circle of Willis via a large left posterior communicating artery (PCoA) and a patent anterior communicating artery. He was returned to the ICU after angiography, and immediately started on aspirin and a heparin drip with a goal partial thromboplastin time of 80 to 90 seconds. His neurological examination was unchanged in comparison with just prior to the angiogram ( and B). The next day a routine CT angiogram verified the findings of the angiogram , with spontaneous thrombosis of the aneurysm and the left ICA from the skull base to the supraclinoid segment. There was reconstitution of flow at the supraclinoid segment with filling of the left MCA, ACA, and PCoA. That afternoon the patient developed slurring of his speech and right hemiparesis. Emergency MRI and MR perfusion showed multifocal restricted diffusion in the left M 3 territory on both diffusionweighted imaging and on the perfusion scan, most con
