A 65-year-old Japanese man with a history of atrial fibrillation (treated with oral warfarin) and hypertrophic * Correspondence: neu106@poh.osaka-med.ac.jp Department of Neurosurgery, Osaka Medical College, 2-7 Daigaku-machi, Takatsuki City, Osaka 569-8686, Japan cardiomyopathy suffered sudden onset of stertorous breathing, followed by deteriorated into coma in December of 2014. The patient was transported to our hospital by ambulance, and on admission he was experiencing ataxic breathing. Initial National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) was 35/42 points with a Glasgow Coma Scale of 7 (E:1, V:2, M:4). Laboratory examination revealed a prothrombin time-international normalized ratio (PT-INR) of 1.87. There was no evidence of early ischemic signs on head CT . However a high intensity area (HIA) was visible in the right medial temporal lobe, right hypothalamus, right internal capsule and right medial occipital lobe on head MRI diffusionweighted imaging (DWI) . Head MRA showedright ICA occlusion and basilar artery (BA) occlusion . However, right anterior and middle cerebral arteries were patent by virtue of flow via the anterior communication artery (Acom) . Prior head MRI/ MRA performed for screening purposes, had incidentally demonstrated a right PPTA . This PPTA joined the middle BA proximal to the superior cerebellar artery (SCA) and fed branched SCAs. Because the initial NIHSS score was high (35 points) and there was clear cross flow from the Acom, BA occlusion was suspected. However, PPTA was not visible in the initial MRA. Therefore, ICA occlusion with PPTA involvement postulated. Because PT-INR was 1.87, rt-PA intravenous therapy was not utilized and instead endovascular therapy was performed. We inserted a 9Fr long sheath in the right femoral artery. 9Fr Optimo 90 STR (Tokai Medical Products) was placed in the right internal carotid artery at the C1 level. Digital subtraction angiography revealed right ICA occlusion . A coaxial system which consisted of 5MAX ACE Reperfusion Catheter (Penumbra, Inc.), 3MAX ACE Reperfusion Catheter (Penumbra, Inc.) and CHIKAI 14 (ASAHI INTECC CO.) was inserted in the Optimo. The 5MAX ACE was guided to the thrombus proximal to the right PPTA and was connected at this point to the Aspiration Pump (Penumbra, Inc.). We guided the 5MAX ACE distally to the right posterior communication artery (Pcom) and all blood clots were aspirated. After a first pass of the direct aspiration using the 5MAX ACE, we achieved successful recanalization with a Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction score (TICI) of 3 . Postoperatively there were no new acute ischemic lesions on postoperative MRI DWI , and all cerebral vessels including PPTA were visible on postoperative MRA . The patient was discharged on postoperative day 13, with a normal neurological examination except for the presence of an upper left quadrantanopia. (See figure on previous page.) Operative photographs. a Right ICAO was shown on an anterior-posterior view of the preoperative angiography. b Right ICAO was shown on a lateral view of the preoperative angiography. c The 5MAX ACE Reperfusion Catheter (single black arrow) was guided to the thrombus proximal to the PPTA on an anterior-posterior view of the intraoperative angiography. d The 5MAX ACE Reperfusion Catheter (single black arrow) was guided to the thrombus proximal to the PPTA on a lateral view of the intraoperative angiography. e Successful recanalization achieved a TICI 3 score as shown on an anterior-posterior view of the postoperative angiography. Photographically, Pcom of a fetal type (single black arrow head) and PPTA (double black arrow heads) were shown. f Successful recanalization achieved a TICI 3 score as shown on a lateral view of the postoperative angiography. Photographically, Pcom of a fetal type (single black arrow head) and PPTA (double black arrow heads) were shown
