A 65-year old female undergoing chemotherapy due to breast cancer suffered acute pain in the neck and both ears accompanied by visual defects in both eyes and paraesthesia in both arms. She was partially lethargic and not responsive. The computed tomographic (CT) angiography of the chest, neck and head revealed an acute type A aortic dissection extending up to the aortic isthmus . According to our own classification , which takes into consideration the distal extent of dissection (D) and the location of the intimal tear (E) in the three main segments of the aorta (a: ascending aorta, b: aortic arch, c: descending aorta), she presented Type D-ab and E-ab. The innominate artery (IA) and both CCAs were also dissected, presenting severely narrowed true lumen . The patient was referred to our centre and operated on an emergent basis. The intraoperative neurovascular monitoring consisted of arterial pressure lines in both radial arteries, electroencephalography and near-infrared spectroscopy (NIROperformed. The arch was replaced using a quadrifurcated prosthesis (InterGard Aortic Arch; InterVascular, MAQUET Cardiovascular). The circumferential dissected left CCA and IA were anastomosed with corresponding arms of the arch graft in the end-to-end manner, approximating the layers of the dissected wall. Yet, because anastomosis of the severely damaged IA was very problematic, and the quality of the anastomosis questionable, we decided to apply an additional aorto-carotid bypass, even if after reestablishment of antegrade perfusion, there were no signs of insufficient right-sided brain perfusion in the neurovascular monitoring. For this purpose, we simply used the cannulation arm from the CCA and the cannulation arm of the arch prosthesis, and anastomosed them end-to-end after terminating cardiopulmonary bypass . The circulatory arrest of the lower body (26 min) was performed under moderate hypothermia (29.6°C) and unilateral cerebral perfusion, which lasted 65 min altogether. The patient was extubated 10 h after surgery without any neurological symptoms, and the postoperative course was uneventful.
