An 82-year-old woman presented with a four-week history of diplopia upon right lateral gaze, and was found to have a right cranial nerve VI palsy on exam. Noncontrast head computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a 2.5 cm mass in the right cerebellopontine angle compressing the pons, which was concerning for a giant aneurysm and was confirmed by computed tomography angiography (CTA). The patient was urgently admitted for further evaluation and treatment because of the symptomatic nature of this giant posterior circulation aneurysm. Diagnostic cerebral angiography from a right femoral artery approach confirmed a 2.5 cm vertebrobasilar junction aneurysm with separate inflow from both vertebral arteries, and outflow into the basilar artery, which arose from the left lateral aneurysm wall 8–10 mm away from the left vertebral artery inflow zone . The cervical vertebral arteries were relatively codominant, with a focal 70%–80% stenosis in the distal left vertebral artery at its junction with the aneurysm. Additional angiographic findings included a type 2 aortic arch with significant atheromatous change and marked tortuosity of the proximal great vessels . The patient also had a suspected chronic occlusion of the right internal carotid artery with retrograde flow through the right posterior communicating artery supplying the right middle cerebral artery territory. It was felt that the best therapeutic option would be placement of a stent from the right vertebral artery into the basilar trunk, with coil embolization of the aneurysm sac and sacrifice of the distal V4 segment of the left vertebral artery in order to reduce inflow. Severe atherosclerotic disease and tortuosity of the brachiocephalic and right subclavian arteries precluded navigation of a 5 Fr H1 diagnostic catheter into the right subclavian or vertebral arteries. After approximately one hour of attempting to select the right subclavian and vertebral arteries with a variety of diagnostic catheters over several different wires from the right femoral approach, it was felt that a right radial access would allow a more direct approach to the right vertebral artery resulting in a more stable guide catheter position. The previously placed right radial arterial line and right wrist were then prepped and draped in sterile fashion, and the 4 Fr arterial line was exchanged over a 0.035-inch wire for a short 6 Fr sheath. A solution of nitroglycerin 200 mcg, verapamil 5 mg, and heparin 2000 units were injected through the sheath, which was then connected to a continuous heparinized saline flush after confirmation of vessel patency. The rightfemoral artery sheath was transduced and used as an arterial line throughout the case. Using fluoroscopic and roadmap guidance, a 6 Fr Envoy DA-XB MPD guide catheter was advanced over an angled Glidewire into the right brachial artery, right subclavian artery, and subsequently into the cervical right vertebral artery without any difficulty . Time from right radial artery sheath placement to guide catheter positioning was approximately 10 minutes. Three-dimensional (3D) rotational angiography was performed and endovascular treatment was successful . An Enterprise stent was placed from the right vertebral artery into the mid-basilar trunk through a Prowler Select Plus microcatheter, and the aneurysm sac was embolized with a total of 40 bare platinum coils for a total coil length of 955 cm through an SL-10 microcatheter from the right vertebral artery approach (Figures 5 and 6). Owing to adequate occlusion of the aneurysm sac and lengthy nature of the procedure, it was decided to not pursue sacrifice of the distal left vertebral artery at the time of initial treatment. Leaving the left vertebral artery open would also allow access into the aneurysm sac in the event of significant recanalization. The patient received a total of 10 mg Decadron during the procedure, and did well clinically afterward, without significant headache and perhaps mild improvement in her diplopia.
The key for low complication rates is careful patient selection, good technique, and appropriate pre-procedural assessment. 11 Patients possibly requiring future arteriovenous fistula or arterial bypass graft should be excluded because of the potential need of a patent radial artery. Prior to any invasive intervention involving the radial artery, collateral circulation to the hand must be assessed. A multitude of noninvasive methods have been described to assess collateral circulation to the hand including digital pressures, plethysmography, pulse oximetry, and duplex ultrasonography.The patient then opens the fist and manual pressure is released from the ulnar artery. Hyperextension of the hand or wide separation of the digits should be avoided as they may result in a false-positive or abnormal test. If sufficient collateral circulation is present, there should be normal return of color to the hand within about 3–12 seconds. If there is no return of color within the allotted time, this is called a positive modified Allen's test and the radial artery should be avoided for interventional procedures. 18 that the plethysmographic component of the pulse oximetry might improve the assessment of collateral circulation of the hand over the sole utilization of the modified Allen's test in the setting of critical care monitoring. 19 We performed a technique using pulse oximetry in collaboration with the modified Allen's test to ensure the most accurate evaluation. 20 Adequate radial and ulnar artery compression is confirmed with loss of the normal pulse oximetry waveform. Subsequent return of an appropriate waveform and oxygen saturation following the release of the ulnar artery implies a negative test and adequate ulnar collateral circulation. The transradial approach has a unique set of risks and complications aside from the traditional transfemoral approach that should be well understood prior to undertaking a procedure. There are a few welldocumented complications of the transradial approach, primarily described in the interventional cardiology literature. Minor complications include ecchymosis at the puncture site in 2%–3% of patients. 12 Arteriovenous fistulas and pseudoaneurysm formation with the transradial approach has been reported in 0.2%–0.4% of cases. 6,7,16 More serious complications including significant local site hematoma secondary to arterial injury with resultant compartment syndrome requiring surgical decompression have rarely been described with an estimated incidence of less than 0.4%. 21 The most common complication associated with the transradial approach is delayed radial artery occlusion, which has been reported to occur in 1.5%–33% of patients undergoing transradial access for coronary procedures, with the true incidence likely underestimated because of the asymptomatic nature in the vast majority of cases. 5,6,22–24 Most modern studies suggest delayed radial artery occlusion rates between 3% in diagnostic and up to 6% in interventional cardiac procedures, which are related in part to the size of the access sheath. Radial artery occlusion can be prevented with careful vascular access, appropriate sizing of the sheath, adequate intra-procedural anticoagulation, and careful post-procedural patent hemostasis techniques. 25,26 Critical ischemia with necrosis has never been reported with transradial access after appropriate evaluation of collateral palmar circulation; however, critical hand ischemia requiring surgery has been described related to distal embolization. 3,27 In addition to direct site complications, transient (ischemic or neurologic) symptoms have been described in the literature with prolonged manipulation of guiding catheters, but are a relatively uncommon issue. This can be avoided with selection of the appropriate catheters according to the individual patient's unique anatomic variations. 28
