A 41-year-old man presented with deep pain in his ear for 6 days before visiting our department. We did not detect any abnormalities in his physical or neurological examination. Although the MRI did not reveal a SAH or cerebral infarction, we observed right vertebral artery (VA) stenosis in both the head MRA and the three-dimensional CTA (3D-CTA) ( and b). In addition, the basi-parallel anatomical scanning (BPAS) images showed aneurismal dilation of the VA just proximal to right PICA . Based on the findings from the MRA, CTA, and BPAS images, we made a diagnosis of right VAD. We started antihypertensive treatment with continuous nicardipine administration and followed up on the dissection with a multi-modal imaging study that included MRA, CTA, and angiography. The MRA study conducted 24 h after admission showed progression of the stenosis in the proximal VA and intraaneurysmal hyperintensity . Four days after admission, we observed the disappearance of flow in the right VA proximal to the aneurysm and growth of the intraaneurysmal hyperintensity on a follow-up MRI scan . This hyperintense area was considered to be an intramural hematoma in the occluded aneurysm. However, 4D-CTA was performed to confirm a lack of blood flow in the aneurysm, indicating that an artery occlusion procedure was unnecessary. For this first 4D-CTA, we used the recommended X-ray dose and 16 cm of coverage area. The 4D-CTA image revealed arrested anterograde flow of the right VA, and a lack of massive flow into the aneurysm ( –e and Online Resource 1). However, because of the noise caused by the low X-ray dose, it was difficult to conclude that there was no blood flow into the aneurysm and that the PICA was patent ( , arrowhead). Nevertheless, massive blood flow into the dilatation was unlikely. We maintained observation and continued antihypertensive treatment. On day 7, another 4D-CTA was performed because the day 7 MRA revealed further growth of the hyperintensity. For this second 4D-CTA, we reduced the total exposure by narrowing the coverage area; however, we increased the local X-ray dose to obtain fine spatial resolution. Specifically, we only recruited 80 rows, which covered 4 cm, out of 320 rows in the CT scanner. Consequently, the second 4D-CTA revealed a lack of blood flow into the aneurismal dilatation and patency of the right PICA supplied by retrograde flow ( –j and Online Resource 2). On day 11, a conventional angiography was performed to confirm the absence of recanalization of the VAD. The findings on day 11 were the same as those on the day 7 4D-CTA . The patient was discharged without cerebral infarction and intracranial bleeding, and left the hospital on foot.
