In addition to discussing general concerns at the CGB meetings, professionals were actively encouraged by the consultant in charge of the service (DP) to share details of exemplar cases creating anxiety. Critical incidents were also identified in cooperation with the clinical team. Cases and incidents were initially reported by both primary and secondary healthcare professionals running the service either formally at the CGB meetings and/or directly to the Consultant in charge of the service or to members of the hospital-based service. The CGB meetings and informal discussions with various staff revealed some potential areas of concern. Additional research activities were specifically aimed at risk management and also informed the work presented here.
In order to explore the dimensions of the concerns raised we will use a series of case vignettes. These are constructed case studies based on an amalgam of real life situations which were reported by professionals within NCL as being a source of concern.
John is a 72 year old retired civil servant. He has active cancer and has suffered recurrent pulmonary emboli and so needs ongoing warfarin therapy. He has been taking warfarin for several years and is managed by the community service. He was admitted to hospital for unrelated reasons. He was discharged from hospital but no discharge summary was provided. The community service received a letter from a recent out-patient appointment indicating only that 'the hospital' had stopped the patient's warfarin when John was an in-patient. Telephone calls to the hospital failed to clarify the situation meaning that the community service had to resort to asking the patient for details of his medication status. John's case highlights the risks that present when there is inadequate communication between hospital and community providers. Clearly the hospital has a legal and professional responsibility to provide adequate discharge information to ensure that John is discharged safely. But John's case raises interesting questions: how far should the community service be expected to go in tracking information? whose responsibility is it to ensure continuity of care of his warfarin management and how acceptable is it to be relying on a patient's report of medication changes?
Eleanor is a lady in her eighties with mild dementia, COPD and recurrent PE. Her mobility is limited and she requires constant portable oxygen. She is visited by the community anti-coagulation service every 2-3 weeks. Following hospital admission for a chest infection she was discharged without informing the GP or any of the community staff. A week post-discharge, when the healthcare assistant visited to do a routine check, Eleanor was found to be under-coagulated. She was sure that the hospital had taken her off warfarin and told her not to take any more. She was unsure which ward she was in and could not remember the names of any of the staff. The GP was unaware of the situation as no discharge summary had been provided and there was no written record. The community pharmacist contacted the hospital and, following several frustrating attempts to obtain the correct information, the hospital said that the patient's warfarin had not in fact been stopped but that no discharge summary had been sent because 'pharmacy had not approved it'.
Eleanor's case provides a further illustration of the difficulties that can ensue when information isn't shared between all those with responsibility for a patient's care. Eleanor's situation was further confounded by the involvement of a healthcare assistant whose role, by definition, meant that she was unable to adjust Eleanor's warfarin dose. Unlike John in our previous vignette, Eleanor was not able to assist the professionals involved, leading to inevitable frustration and anxiety reflected in this comment made by a nurse practitioner, 'I don't know how we manage these sorts of incidents because where does the responsibility lie' Case vignette – GP failing to consider OASTP concerns/community OASTP axis William is a 69 year old ex-postman on warfarin who is described in medical notes as " not too stable " and suffers frequent nose bleeds. Following two particularly lengthy nosebleeds he telephoned the community anticoagulation service (ACS) who advised him to keep his warfarin dose unchanged. Over the subsequent 5 days William had some smaller nosebleeds and elected (without advice) to miss some of his doses of warfarin. His GP started him on an anti-infective for his nose bleeds which he had had before but did not counsel him in relation to warfarin, nor inform the ACS. The nosebleeds persisted and William continued to dose himself erratically. William attended the ACS and was found to be severely undercoagulated; he was advised to keep taking his warfarin and to inform the service of any further missed doses. The anticoagulation service wrote to the GP requesting a review of the appropriateness of warfarin for this patient bearing in mind any co-morbidities and his social situation, but received no reply and no indication that such a review had happened. Subsequently the GP admitted that he did not think he should 'interfere' with the warfarin. William's case illustrates the threats to safety that can occur when different professionals do not operate from a shared, practical understanding of their respective roles. Combined with patients who may be panicked or frightened the potential for the standard of care to fall below what is acceptable is evident. The idea that by not 'interfering' a clinician somehow absolves him/herself of professional responsibility is clearly untenable. Despite this it was a recurring theme frequently occurring in the guise of clinicians not wanting to involve themselves in 'specialist' care even at the most basic level despite the risk to a patient of becoming seriously under or overcoagulated. In the risk context it is interesting to remind ourselves of the case of Marriott v West Midlands HA in which a GP visited a patient who had suffered a fall and prescribed painkillers but did not suggest a full neurological examination as the risk of a brain clot was small. Despite the small risks the court deemed this to be negligent on the basis of the potential severity of the consequences to the patient if a clot existed.
Case vignettes – GP failing to consider the 'over-responsible' and 'under-responsible' patients Bob is an 83 year old retired driver who lives with his wife who is his main carer. He has been taking warfarin for atrial fibrillation for more than 5 years and is managed by the community ACS. Bob developed a chest infection and was seen by his GP at home. His GP observed an abdominal lump with surface bruising and provisionally diagnoses an abdominal haematoma so referred Bob to the hospital for a blood test and an ultrasound. However he did not notify the ACS nor discuss anti-coagulation with Bob. The ultrasound showed that Bob had two abdominal haematomas and, only at that stage, was he referred to the ACS for urgent review. It is unequivocal that a patient who presented to a GP with symptoms prompting a provisional diagnosis of suspected abdominal haematoma should have been referred to the OASTP service, rather than for a limited set of investigations which ignored their anticoagulation status. Bob's case echoes the case of William as again the failure to refer Bob to the anticoagulation service in a timely fashion appeared to reflect the GP's concern about 'getting involved' , despite the fact that failure to refer at an appropriate time, bearing in mind the risks involved, has been regarded as evidence of negligence . However, could it be argued that the relatively uncommon nature of a diagnosis of abdominal haematoma made it reasonable in a Bolam sense for the GP to act as he did in the first instance until a diagnosis was confirmed? GP's working outwith an anticoagulation service have, of course, always managed patients on warfarin. However, as both William's and Bob's cases illustrate, some GPs and other community professionals appeared uncertain as to how the system operated overall and behaved in ways which indicated a sub-optimal understanding of their role, leading to occasions when claims of sub-standard care would appear to be legitimate. Investigating these sorts of system failures further, we found that the Standard Operating Protocol was silent on the role that a GP working outwith this service should play in community-based OASTP service. This could be viewed as an oversight in relation to any claim for negligence on the part of the provider. Equally, the Service Specifications considered communications initiated by the patient or the anticoagulation practitioner but did not explicitly address the scenario of a GP needing to initiate contact, leaving the matter of when to instigate communication to an individual GP's professional judgment.
Edward is a retired molecular biologist who receives warfarin as part of the management of atrial fibrillation. His target INR is in the range 2-3. Edward has mild osteopenia and has fallen on two occasions. He is anxious about the possibility of fracturing his hip. He has extensively researched the scientific evidence concerning possible relationships between vitamin K levels and fracture and management of his stroke risk. As a result he has concluded that he wishes to reduce his target INR.
David is a 70 year old man who has taken warfarin for 5 years and has been self-testing for the last 2. As a result of becoming undercoagulated he has, in the past, suffered recurrent thrombi in his heart. Consequently the ACS sends him regular reminders to phone in his INR test results but he fails to do so unless something goes wrong. we found evidence of community practitioners failing to follow-up referrals to the hospital anticoagulation clinic and, conversely, some evidence of casual importance being accorded by hospital accident & emergency departments to 'urgent' information concerning a patient whose anticoagulant status was volatile. More disappointingly, we found suggestion of a lack of co-operation at an organisational level resulting in, for example, evidence of insufficient information being transferred between hospital staff who considered that once they had discharged a patient they had no further responsibility to provide information to a patient's GP about the patient's anti-coagulation status. The need to clarify roles in the system of delivering warfarin therapy has been highlighted previously . Although, we could find no case law considering the legal liability of teams working across different geographical sites, the court has held that the way that a team of hospital doctors worked together produced a negligent level of care and in that case, the team leader was found to be negligent in having inadequately trained his team . In relation to this service, it may be that the cross-site teamworking could also provide a basis for a negligence action. The emphasis in clinical governance terms is on risk management at an individual clinician-patient level which highlighted a requirement for training to address the management of the risks of the wider team context within which the OASTP service is provided. In many areas of tort law a claiming party who is found to have contributed in some way to their situation may be found to have been contributorily negligent and the remedies applied are adjusted appropriately to reflect this contribution. Traditionally, in healthcare law such a defence of contributory negligence by which some legal responsibility could be attributed to a patient has not been used. This reluctance presumably reflects the paternalistic model of clinician-patient relationship which has traditionally underpinned healthcare. A successful legal claim for negligence requires not only that a duty of care is breached but also that the breach caused the harm suffered. In practice causation is tested by the 'but for' test so that 'but for' the alleged failure, the claiming party would not have suffered harm. In other words there is a direct link between an action and the harm suffered. On a paternalistic view of healthcare the main actor is the doctor or healthcare professional and the assumption is that the patient is adopting a passive 'recipient' role which absolves him of any real responsibility and, in a legal sense, means that his conduct cannot interfere with the chain of causation. It is curious that contributory negligence continues to be so rarely asserted. Yet, increasingly, as patients take more responsibility for their care it is questionable whether it remains appropriate to assume that patients' actions cannot break the chain of causation.
In the UK we found only one clinical negligence case in which a successful defence was mounted on the basis of contributory negligence . The case involved a patient whose cervical smear test was negligently reported as negative in 1988. In the following decade the patient was repeatedly advised to undergo further smear tests; she refused as she found the procedure painful and embarassing. She was diagnosed with cervical carcinoma in 1998 and claimed for negligence. Part of the defendant's case was that the claimant's behaviour had interfered with the chain of causation. The judge agreed and the claimant was found to be two thirds responsible. The basis for the judgment was largely pragmatic with little detailed judicial consideration of the underlying legal principles and so it is difficult for us to extrapolate to the situations faced by clinicians managing self-caring patients on warfarin.
