The patient was seen at a follow-up visit 1 month after discharge in the complex hypertension clinic at our institution. He was doing well overall, with systolic BP in the range of 104–116 mmHg and heart rate of 60–70 beats/ min. He had no further headaches and reported no chest pain, palpitations, dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, or peripheral edema. The patient was feeling tired. He continued receiving amlodipine, 10 mg daily; aspirin, 81 mg daily; and carvedilol, 50 mg twice daily. Recent laboratory studies included the following: creatinine, 0.94 mg/dl; potassium, 3.8 mg/dl; calcium, 9.3 mg/dl; and hemoglobin, 10.8 mg/dl. Renal angiography performed 6 months after the initial presentation showed patent aorta; celiac, superior, and inferior mesenteric arteries; and common, external, and internal iliac arteries. The bilateral accessory renal arteries were patent. No renal artery dissection or aneurysm was identified. The beaded appearance of the renal arteries seen on angiography 6 months earlier was markedly improved. Cortical scarring in the bilateral kidneys related to prior infarcts was seen again, unchanged from prior imaging. No evidence of acute renal infarct was seen. The carvedilol dose was reduced to 25 mg twice daily, and the amlodipine dose was reduced to 5 mg daily. BP was well controlled in the range of 110–120/60–70 mm Hg, and heart rate was maintained at 60–70 beats/min. Patient follow-up after resolution of the acute condition is not well defined because of the rarity of the condition. We would suggest frequent follow-up initially, with a goal of keeping BP in a lower range of around 110–120/60–70 mmHg and a heart rate of 60–70 beats/min to avoid any excessive risk of rupture of the friable vessels. These renal lesions may progress to FMD, so follow-up is needed. This would include BP monitoring and imaging. There are no guidelines for imaging, but we would suggest imaging 3 months after the acute event, every 6 months for the first year, and annually thereafter. How long to continue imaging is not clear, but our practice has been to image with magnetic resonance angiography to avoid radiation exposure annually or biannually. No data are available on the most appropriate choice of antihypertensive agents in this population; however, we feel it is worthwhile to use a b-blocker to maintain a lower heart rate. Addition of a renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitor for possible long-term benefit of vascular remodeling can be considered. There are also no data on statin use. Because these lesions are not atheromatous, regular guidelines for statin use should be followed. Disclosures None.
