J R otational vertebrobasilar insufficiency (RVBI), also known as bow hunter's syndrome, is a rare cause of vertebrobasilar insufficiency that classically leads to signs and symptoms of posterior circulation ischemia—vertigo, dizziness, nystagmus, syncope, and so forth—when a patient's head is rotated. Various case reports and case series describe the clinical entity and the role of vertebral artery decompression or cervical fusion. 4,5,13 Dynamic occlusion of the vertebral artery accounts for the clinical syndrome, and the site of occlusion can been seen throughout the course of the vertebral artery, with the V 2 and V 3 segments being the most common, respectively. 5 Decompression of the artery at the site of dynamic occlusion can lead to complete resolution of symptoms in most cases. 5,13 In this report we describe a patient with RVBI secondary to a dominant persistent first intersegmental artery (PFIA), an anatomical variant of the vertebral artery at the atlantocervical junction. In the PFIA, which is rare with a reported incidence of 0.01% in North America, 6 the vertebral artery takes a low course under the arch of C-1 rather than over, bypassing the foramen transversarium of C-1. 6,7,12 This is often seen in conjunction with developmental anomalies of the atlas including cranialization of the lateral mass on the side of the variant course. 11 History and Preoperative Assessment A 38-year-old male began experiencing spells of dizziness and near syncope upon rightward head turning. He found that the symptoms were reproducible, especially when trying to parallel park, and would resolve with neutralization of his head position. Brain MRI was initiallyRotational vertebrobasilar insufficiency, or bow hunter's syndrome, is a rare cause of posterior circulation ischemia, which, following rotation of the head, results in episodic vertigo, dizziness, nystagmus, or syncope. While typically caused by dynamic occlusion of the vertebral artery in its V 2 and V 3 segments, the authors here describe a patient with dynamic occlusion of the vertebral artery secondary to a persistent first intersegmental artery, a rare variant course of the vertebral artery. In this case the vertebral artery coursed under rather than over the posterior arch of the C-1. This patient was also found to have incomplete development of the posterior arch of C-1, as is often seen with this variant. The patient underwent dynamic digital subtraction angiography, which demonstrated occlusion at the variant vertebral artery with head turning. He was then taken for decompression of the vertebral artery through removal of the incomplete arch of C-1 that was causing the dynamic compression. After surgery the patient had a complete resolution of symptoms. In this report, the authors present the details of this case, describe the anatomical variants involved, and provide a discussion regarding the need for atlantoaxial fusion in these patients.performed, showing an incidental pituitary macroadenoma but no other abnormalities. Subsequent vascular imaging including CT angiography (CTA) and MR angiography (MRA) showed a hypoplastic right vertebral artery thought to be a congenital variant and a contralateral dominant left vertebral artery . The course of the left vertebral artery was consistent with a PFIA variant . The atlas was also noted to be grossly maldeveloped, with partial cranialization of the lateral masses as well as incomplete fusion of the posterior arch. Diagnostic 4-vessel and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) with bilateral head turning was performed next. On rightward head turning only, there was a significant reduction in flow from the left vertebral artery into the posterior circulation . Dynamic imaging revealed likely compression of the PFIA as it coursed under the left-sided posterior arch of C-1. During this technique, the patient reproduced his symptoms of dizziness and near syncope, providing clinical evidence congruent with imaging findings. The diagnosis of rotational vertebrobasilar insufficiency, or bow hunter's syndrome, was then confirmed and the patient was started on aspirin therapy.
