A previously fit and well 47-year-old man presented to the emergency department after being found unresponsive by his wife in bed in the morning. He had been well the previous evening, however he had taken a combination of opioid and antiinflammatory medications for shoulder pain earlier in the day. An ambulance was called and he was found to be profoundly drowsy with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) of 3/15 with pupil diameter 1 mm bilaterally. He was treated empirically for opioid toxicity, in view of his use of opioid-based analgesics and pinpoint pupils, and an improvement in his level of alertness was noted. On arrival to the emergency department his blood pressure was 130/89 mmHg, heart rate 81 beats/min in sinus rhythm, and his respiratory rate 20/min. On neurological exam, his GCS was 15. His pupils were 2 mm in diameter bilaterally and reactive to light. There was no focal neurological deficit noted. Rash and evidence of meningeal irritation was absent. Cardiorespiratory examination was unremarkable. In the initial course of his admission he demonstrated fluctuations in his level of alertness ranging from deep coma to mild somnolence. He and his wife also reported problems with short-term memory since the onset of his symptoms.Percheron (AOP) occlusion, evidenced by restricted diffusion with areas of petechial haemorrhage within the infarcts (
. CT angiography showed normal carotids and vertebral arteries bilaterally, but a thin basilar artery as a result of bilateral fetaltype posterior communicating arteries. He was commenced on clopidogrel and simvastatin and discharged home the following day. On neurocognitive testing he displayed a marked deficit with delayed recall. Further investigations to elucidate the cause of his stroke were unrevealing, including a normal 24-hour ECG and transthoracic echocardiogram. His total cholesterol was 4.0 mmol/L and fasting glucose was 4.8 mmol/L. A thrombophilia screen including lupus anticoagulant and anti-cardiolipin antibodies was negative. At three-month follow-up he had continued to make a good recovery with only a minor degree of orthostatic vertigo, but no persistent memory deficit and was planning his return to work in the near future.
