In December of 2013, a 34-year-old male who lost consciousness, which was recovered shortly, was admitted to our emergency room. Except for severe a headache, there was no specific history of head trauma or medical illness. In neurological examination, he showed a confused mentality with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) of 13/15 and a Hunt and Hess grade of II. There were no abnormal laboratory findings. A non-contrasted brain computed tomography (CT) scan showed a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) . Conventional four-vessel angiography confirmed a 4-mm-sized blister-like aneurysm of the supra-clinoid segment of the right ICA ( , c, d). There were no other aneurysms or vascular malformations that could be related to the SAH. Endovascular treatment seemed to be unsuitable due to the broad-based aneurysmal neck and small morphology. A right fronto-temporal craniotomy and an attempt of surgical clipping were performed. During the operation, an extremely thin and defective walled aneurysm was seen and part of the bulging wall seemed to have a hemorrhage within it . Before clipping, the ICG-VA was performed and revealed the filling defect of dye in aneurysm . After the temporary clip was applied on the proximal ICA, the aneurysm and arterial wall were then covered thinly with Bemsheets to prevent the clip from slipping, and then a Sugita-6 clip was applied parallel to the arterial wall  so that the clip blades could cover the arterial wall beyond the lesion. ICG-VA was performed again to confirm the patency of parent artery and perforators . After the surgery, the patient exhibited paraparesis. A follow-up brain CT angiogram showed vasospasms in both ACAs. The patient's symptoms gradually improved through 3-H therapy. A follow-up angiography 2 weeks later revealed a good patency of the ICA and the obliteration of the aneurysm ( , f). The patient had no residual motor deficit and had returned to normal activities in 3 months after the surgery.
In February of 2014, a 53-year-old female presented with SAH. She showed a drowsy mentality, with a Hunt andHess grade of II. Brain CT angiogram scan showed Fisher grade IV SAH and a 3-mm-sized blister-like aneurysm of the supraclinoid segment of the left ICA . The patient has a humpback, so that the conventional fourvessel angiography could not be performed. A left fronto-temporal craniotomy was performed to attempt surgical clipping. During the operation, an extremely thin walled aneurysm having a hemorrhage within it was seen and an aneurysmal dome was defected . Through the ICG-VA, we were able to see the filling defect of dye in the aneurysm . The aneurysm and arterial wall were covered thinly with Bemsheets and then a Sugita clip was applied parallel to the arterial wall using the same method as in case 1 . ICG-VA was performed again, showing the intact blood flow of the ICA and perforating arteries . Five days after the SAH, the patient suffered aphasia and a confused mental state. A follow-up brain CT angiogram revealed vasospasms at both ACAs, MCAs, and PCAs. The patient's symptoms have gradually improved through the 3-H treatment. A follow-up brain CT angiogram several days later revealed the obliteration of the aneurysm, no migration of the aneurismal clip, and improvement of vasospasm ( , f). At the 3-month follow-up check-up, the patient was doing well and her neurological examination was normal.
