A 40-year-old woman presented with a 3-day history of headache, left homonymous hemianopia, and left appendicular ataxia and dysmetria. Head CT showed a large occipital infarct in the right PCA distribution with mild mass eff ect . CT angiography (CTA) revealed highgrade stenosis of the cavernous right ICA and a fetal origin of the right PCA (absent right P1 segment) ( – D). Th e MCA, its superior and inferior divisions, and the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) were all fully patent and of normal caliber. Th e patient had no episodes of hypotension preceding or accompanying her symptoms. When an extensive workup for stroke revealed no alternate etiology, the patient was believed to have had a direct arterio-arterial embolus from the cavernous right ICA to the PCA. After 3 uneventful days in the hospital with a persistently normal blood pressure, she was discharged home on aspirin and scheduled for outpatient rehabilitation for persistent left-sided ataxia and hemianopia. Three weeks later, she developed acute-onset facial droop and increasing lethargy. Head CT and brain MRI revealed marked enlargement of the right PCA stroke that now included portions of the right temporal lobe and corpus callosum with significant mass effect and a 6-mm midline shift ( and F). Repeat CTA was unchanged. She was admitted to the neurointensive care unit and started on intravenous hypertonic saline. Once again, no episodes of hypotension were either reported or documented. The patient responded well to medical therapy and remained clinically stable. Serial head CTs demonstrated stability of the mass effect and midline shift. She eventually regained a normal level of consciousness, but had persistent left-sided hemianopia and ataxia. After 2 weeks in the hospital, she was discharged to a rehabilitation facility.
A 44-year-old man presented with a 2-week history of intermittent visual hallucinations and confusion. Th e patient had a history of chronic cocaine use, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, chronic renal insuffi ciency, and peripheral vascular disease. Neurological examination revealed left homonymous hemianopia. Head CT and MRI demonstrated a right PCA distribution infarct ( and B). After a workup failed to reveal an alternative source, the stroke was attributed to the patient ' s multiple vascular risk factors and possible cocaine-induced vasculitis, although no vascular imaging was performed. He was discharged home on aspirin after 2 hospital days, with a persistent left hemianopia. However, 3 weeks later, the patient was found unresponsive and in pulseless electrical activity. With quick resuscitation, normal sinus rhythm returned within 6 min. He was immediately placed on a neuroprotective hypothermia protocol, which was discontinued a few hours later when he regained consciousness and began to follow commands bilaterally. Given how quickly his neurological examination returned to baseline, the event was attributed to severe hyperglycemic hyperosmolar coma (serum glucose 600 mg/dL at presentation). Th e following day, the patient developed acute left-sided hemiplegia that was followed by a rapid decline in mental status. Head CT and MRI demonstrated marked progression of the right hemispheric infarct, involvement of both the right PCA and posterior MCA territories, and moderate mass eff ect with a 5-mm midline shift . MR angiography revealed complete occlusion of the right PCA at the P1 segment, a small right posterior communicating artery, and severe fl ow-limiting stenosis of the M1 segment of the right MCA. However, distal MCA branches (including posterior temporal, angular, and parietal) were all patent . Six hours later, neurological worsening ensued with clinical signs of transtentorial herniation and nonreactive right mydriasis. Head CT revealed markedly increased mass eff ect with uncal herniation. A large right decompressive hemicraniectomy was thus urgently performed . Th e patient ' s neurological condition failed to improve, with a postoperative course marked by persistent malignant intracranial hypertension and a prolonged stay in the neurointensive care unit. After development of sepsis and multi-organ failure, his family elected to withdraw life support and the patient died.
A 46-year-old man with a long-standing history of untreated hypertension presented with a 1-week history of severe headaches, rapidly worsening visual acuity, and altered mental status. After treatment for hypertensive emergency owing to an initial systolic blood pressure above 220 mmHg, a lack of improvement in mental status during the next 24 h prompted a neurosurgical consultation. Physical examination showed that he was febrile, nonarousable to painful stimuli, and severely hypertensive with bilateral nonreactive mydriasis, but that he could move all four extremities purposefully. Brain MRI demonstrated a 4-cm sellar and
