A 17-year-old female patient was admitted to emergency services with sudden onset of headache and vomiting. In the patient's medical history, she presented with left leg pain in March 2011. Paravertebral soft tissue was identified between the thoracic vertebrae (T2–T5), causing spinal cord compression at the levels of T4– T5. Lytic lesions in the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae and pelvic soft tissue were also found, causing lysis left ischium-pubic ramus. Paravertebral soft tissue was considered to be the primary lesion and a biopsy was made. The pathological diagnosis was primitive neuroectodermal tumor-ES. Due to metastatic ES, chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatment were prescribed. There was no pathological finding in bone scintigraphy or MRI examinations in May 2012. At the time of admission to emergency services, the patient's temperature was 98.8°F (36.5 ° C), her pulse was regular at 70 beats/min, her respiratory rate was 20 breaths/min, and her blood pressure was 110/70 mm Hg. Neurological examination and other system examinations were normal. Laboratory tests showed WBC 13.2 × 10 3 /μl (4.8–10.8), Hb 12.2 g/dl (12–18), Hct 34.6% (37–52), platelet count 114 × 10 3 /μl (130–400), and INR 0.95 (0.89–1.1). Computed tomography (CT) showing the right frontal lobe located a 60 × 50 mm intraparenchymal hematoma which opened to the lateral right ventricle and an accompanying parenchymal edema. Also, a 9-mm midline shift to the left was observed on her CT scans . The patient was operated on urgently. The intraparenchymal hematoma was evacuated and the operation was terminated. No dural thickening or irregularity was detected during the operation. At the postoperative conUCLA, the intracerebral hematoma was completely discharged and there were no midline shift structures. The cystic area associated with the lateral ventricle in the hematoma region was seen. She was discharged without neurological deficit on the fourth day of her hospitalization. After 2 months, a mass lesion (45 × 30 mm) originating from the dura mater and extending to the cystic encephalomalacia was seen on a routine control CT. Also, there were 3 mass-like dural thickenings in her falx cerebri . On the contrast-enhanced MRI, these dural lesions showed heterogeneous contrast enhancement and no dural tail were seen. The dural lesions were accepted as metastases of ES, and radiotherapy and chemotherapy treatments were begun. After 2 and 12 months of treatment, the control MRIs showed regression of the dural lesions and the size of the mass lesion, which was located in the right frontal lobe . During the follow-up period of the patient, neurological deficit was not seen and the size of the lesions decreased. Palliative surgery was not planned.is the second most common primary bone tumor of the childhood and adolescent period. ES is an aggressive cancer and often spreads hematogenously. In the medical literature the distribution of metastases is 38% lung, 31% bone and 11% bone marrow metastasis . Central nervous system metastases of ES are rarely seen. Usually, they are seen as skull or brain parenchyma metastasis . Dural metastasis of ES is reported more rarely and the mechanism is frequently a direct extension to the dura mater from the skull . Dural metastasis was reported in 8–9% of autopsies of patients who had systemic cancer . Dural involvement occurs by direct extension from skull metastasis in 57–61% of patients and by hematogenous spread in 33–43% of patients . Accompanying lung diseases such as lymphangitic and intravascular pulmonary invasion suggests that arterial dissemination has a primary role in dural metastasis . In the medical literature, 3 cases of ES dural metastases without any brain parenchymal or skull bone metastasis have been reported . Intracranial hemorrhage is rarely seen in dural metastatic patients of ES. Usually, intracranial hemorrhage is due to subdural or epidural hematoma and, at the time of hemorrhage, the presence of dural metastasis can be shown radiologically and macroscopically . Primary intracranial ES and intracerebral hemorrhage accompanied by parenchymal and dural involvement is also extremely rare . The dural involvement and dural metastases of primary intracranial ES have the same radiological manifestations . Dural seedings are rarely seen after the operation for cranial metastasis. Dural metastasis of ES after surgery for intracerebral hematoma has not been reported in the English language medical literature, according to our research. Dural metastatic ES presented with intracranial hemorrhage has been seen in the medical literature in 5 cases . Also, intracranial hemorrhage of primary intracranial ES has been seen in the medical literature in 6 cases . In our case at followup 1.5 years after diagnosis there was no formation of new metastases. Neither intracerebral nor dural metastases were found before preoperative imaging and macroscopic metastases were also not found during the operation. However, microscopic metastases in the brain parenchyma and bone marrow could not be ruled out. As we monitored the dural metastasis in the dural incision line and falx cerebri, it could be speculated that the tumor cells were seeded during surgery. It could also be speculated that asymptomatic brain parenchymal metastases caused intracerebral hematoma but were totally removed in the operation. After radiotherapy and concurrent chemotherapy, nodular dural thickening on the falx completely regressed and the size of the dural mass localized in the operation space was decreased. The present case suggests that dural metastases occur by way of direct invasion or seeding more than by hematogenous spread in ES patients without lung involvement. Considering our identification of similar cases in the literature, the possibility of brain parenchymal metastases should be kept in mind when treating ES patients, especially those with intracranial hemorrhage. Radiologically microscopic parenchymal metastases could not be displayed and parenchymal metastases could not be distinguished from intracranial hemorrhage. In such cases, detailed imaging for dural metastasis needs to be done during the postoperative period and, if detected, postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy with chemotherapy would be appropriate.
