A 61-year-old female was referred to our clinic with a 6-week history of fatigue, weight loss and fevers. She also reported epigastric and bilateral buttock pain. She had no medical history and took no medication. Examination revealed epigastric and left groin tenderness without peritonism. Peripheral pulses were intact. Temporal arteries were nontender and the remaining examination was normal. Initial blood tests revealed a normocytic anaemia (haemoglobin (Hb) 9.1 g/dl), white cell count (WCC) 7.5 Â 10 9 /l and platelets (Plts) 331 Â 10 9 /l. Inflammatory markers were elevated: erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 103 mm/h and C-reactive protein (CRP) 118 mg/l and alkaline phosphatase was raised at 418 U/l; other liver function tests (LFTs) and renal function were normal. Autoimmune serology, serial sets of blood cultures and urinalysis were all negative. Computerized tomography scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis (CT CAP) was unremarkable; however, subsequent positron emission tomography–computed tomography (PET-CT) scan demonstrated an extensive aortitis  consistent with large-vessel vasculitis and a diagnosis of giant cell arteritis (GCA) was made. She was treated with 60 mg prednisolone once daily and methotrexate 15 mg once weekly. Symptoms improved after 3 days with normalization of CRP by week four. A 78-year-old female was referred with a 2-month history of anorexia, fatigue, night sweats and weight loss. She was breathless on exertion and had swollen ankles. She had no past medical history and took no medications. On examination, she was afebrile. She had fingernail splinter haemorrhages. Cardiovascular examination revealed an ejection systolic murmur and unequal brachial blood pressures (right 129/ 62 mmHg, left 107/56 mmHg). Peripheral pulses were intact and temporal arteries pulsatile. She had bilateral pitting oedema with bruising at the ankles. Initial blood tests demonstrated a normocytic anaemia (Hb 86 g/dl), WCC 8.1 Â 10 9 /l and a thrombocytosis: Plts 571 Â 10 9 /l. Urea and creatinine ! The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Association of Physicians. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com were 6.1 and 80, respectively. Other than a hypoalbuminaemia (27 g/l) all other LFTs were unremarkable, and international normalized ratio and prothrombin time were also normal. Inflammatory markers were raised: CRP 139 mg/l and ESR 117 mm/h. ANA, proteinase 3 and myeloperoxidase antibodies were negative. Serial blood cultures and viral serology were also negative, andelectrocardiogram and transthoracic echocardiogram were unremarkable. CT CAP revealed small pericardial and pleural effusions. A subsequent PET-CT scan demonstrated extensive aortitis  consistent with GCA. Intravenous Methylprednisolone (1 g single dose) and 60 mg prednisolone daily were initiated. Her symptoms improved and inflammatory markers normalized at 2 weeks. However, she began developing petechiae on her abdomen and ecchymoses on all limbs. Blood tests demonstrated a thrombocytopenia (Plts 20 Â 10 9 /l) and bone marrow aspirate confirmed an associated immune mediated thrombocytopenia requiring platelet transfusion.
