A 14-year-old female was transferred from an outside facility with a 24 h history of right hand paresthesias and wordfinding difficulties. She had a 2-year history of intermittent migraine headaches. In the 2 months prior to presentation, her headaches had increased in frequency and severity with associated nausea, photophobia, and phonophobia. Her initial assessment was notable for the aforementioned sensory changes and speech difficulties with a non-focal motor exam. Initial computed tomography (CT) findings are shown in and b. Her family history included an uncle with a pituitary mass. Eleven hours after transfer, she developed behavioral changes, a right upper motor neuron facial droop, significantly decreased strength in the right upper extremity (distal greater than proximal), and worsening of her non-fluent verbal aphasia. The patient was transferred at night and she was stable so magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was deferred until the morning. She was given 10 mg intravenous (IV) dexamethasone and continued on 4 mg IV every 6 h. By morning, she had improvement in her right upper extremity weakness though her speech deficit persisted. Vision and extraocular movements remained intact. MRI demonstrated compression of the optic chiasm by a pituitary tumor with cystic and hemorrhagic components  and associated narrowing of the left ICA . An acute cortical infarct in the left frontal lobe was readily apparent . CT angiogram verified greater than 90 and 95–99 % stenosis of the left cavernous and supraclinoid ICA, respectively . Shortly after her MRI, her right upper extremity became densely weak, and she was transferred to the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). Her blood pressure was augmented due to concern for a perfusiondependent deficit. The following day, the patient was taken urgently to the operating room for surgical decompression and pathological diagnosis, and for cerebral angiography for post-surgical evaluation and intervention if indicated. Though pending at the time of surgery, laboratory workup revealed central hypothyroidism, hyperprolactinemia, central hypogonadism, and growth hormone deficiency .
