A 49-year-old white, right-handed, nonmigraineur woman sought medical attention at a secondary-level hospital because of an unusual headache that has lasted 3 days. She was a cigarette smoker and had a history of depression, for which she was treated with trazodone. She had a previous episode 2 years before presentation of transient right facial palsy, and brain MRI at the time showed multifocal chronic infarcts in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory bilaterally, and an acute watershed infarct on the left MCA . Blood tests and cerebrospinal fluid analysis had been unremarkable. She was then lost to follow-up. During the current admission, she reported asthenia and lack of attention for the previous 6 months. After lifting heavy boxes, she developed a mild occipital headache that gradually worsened >3 days to become severe and pulsatile. Other than an asymmetrical blood pressure, which was lower on the right arm than on the left, her vital signs were normal. Her neurological examination revealed memory impairment, ideational apraxia, visual agnosia, left homonymous hemianopia, facial asymmetry, sensory ataxia, and sensory extinction. Systemic examination was unremarkable. Brain MRI  showed the chronic changes that were seen on her previous MRI, 2 years earlier and a new acute right posterior cerebral artery infarct with mass effect, and no crescent sign on T1-weighted imaging with fat saturation. Computed tomographic angiography and catheter angiography documented occlusion of the right posterior cerebral artery, severe stenosis of the left, and occlusion of the right distal M1 segments of the MCAs with prominent lenticulostriate and pial perforating arterioles. In addition, there was 70% stenosis of the right subclavian artery and minimal plaques at the carotid bifurcation bilaterally. ECG revealed QS complexes in V 1 through V 4 leads. Echocardiography documented a left ventricle apical aneurysm without intracardiac thrombus. Cardiac telemetry was normal. Blood test results were normal, including complete blood count, glucose, HbA1c, low-density lipoprotein, homocysteine, creatinine, electrolytes, troponins, coagulation tests (activated partial thromboplastin time, international normalized ratio, lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipins, and anti–β(2)-glycoprotein type 1 antibodies), erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, fibrinogen, autoantibodies (antinuclear, anti-DNA, extractable nuclear antigen, antineutrophil cytoplasmic, and rheumatoid factor), complement C3 and C4, and infection screening (hepatitis B surface antigen, anti-hepatitis C virus antibody, venereal disease research laboratory, and anti-HIV). Cerebrospinal fluid was collected from lumbar puncture 11 days after the onset of headache revealing lymphocytic pleocytosis (14×10 6 cells/L), increased proteins (0.61 g/L), normal glucose, and negative stains, cultures, polymerase chain reaction for herpes viruses and venereal disease research laboratory. A diagnosis of central nervous system (CNS) vasculitis was considered. The patient underwent open brain and leptomeningeal biopsy, which showed normal tissue, including intact small-vessel structure. Coronary angiography revealed multifocal atherosclerotic changes, including occlusion of the left anterior descending artery. Bare metal stents were deployed in the right coronary artery, the circumflex artery, and its M2 branch. She was discharged on warfarin plus clopidogrel for 1 month, and aspirin, atorvastatin, metoprolol, and ramipril. The patient was then transferred to our tertiary center for outpatient clinical follow-up. Her headaches resolved over several weeks. She still had asthenia, mild memory problems, and a left homonymous hemianopia. She was found to have insulin resistance. Although she initially quit smoking after the stroke, she resumed several months later. Four and half years later she had no new symptoms.
to a transient facial asymmetry that occurred two years before her PCA stroke. Furthermore, we considered the watershed pattern of chronic cerebral infarcts and the compensatory dilation of perforating arterioles as reflecting chronic bilateral MCA stenosis.
In conclusion, identifying the cause of intracranial artery stenosis can be challenging in patients with stroke, but it is critical for secondary prevention. The treatment includes antithrombotic therapy, control of relevant vascular risk factors, and specific therapies (eg, immunosuppressant drugs in PACNS and anticoagulant treatment in cardioembolic stroke). . Brain MRI at presentation. A, Fluid attenuation inversion recovery sequences, and (B) diffusion-weighted sequences showing a recent infarct in the right posterior cerebral artery territory, with extension in the vascular territory of the occluded right middle cerebral artery.@BULLET Because persistent headaches, cerebrospinal fluid inflammation, and changes on brain MRI are frequent in Primary angiitis of the central nervous system , this diagnosis is unlikely and it may be appropriate to defer central nervous system biopsy in patients with only one of these manifestations.Once the online version of the published article for which permission is being requested is located, click can be obtained via RightsLink, a service of the Copyright Clearance Center, not the Editorial Office. Stroke in
