A 74-year-old woman was admitted to our institution for repair of an incidentally found large left MCA bifurcation aneurysm. She had no history of stroke or other vascular risk factors except for mild hyperlipidemia. Neurological examination results were normal. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and three-dimensional computed tomography angiography (3D-CTA) revealed a large MCA bifurcation aneurysm with a maximum diameter of 20 mm ( and b). Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography showed the lesion with attenuation of the M2 inferior trunk ( , arrowheads). The patient underwent left frontotemporal craniotomy, and the aneurysm was totally exposed via the transsylvian approach without damage to the venous system. Multiple clips were placed to obliterate the lesion during temporary proximal MCA occlusion for a total of 10 min in three sessions. The MCA was preserved without stenosis, and intraoperative monitoring of motor-evoked potentials and somatosensory evoked potentials showed no change. Intraoperative Doppler ultrasound flowmetry (DVM-4500; Hadeco, Inc., Kanagawa, Japan) revealed that the blood flow of the M2 segments distal to the aneurysm before and after clipping were 75 and 50 ml/ min (superior trunk) and 22 and 48 ml/min (inferior trunk), respectively. The patient showed no neurological deficits soon after surgery, but sensory aphasia with abrupt elevation of the blood pressure was observed 3 h later. She received edaravone, hydroxyethyl starch, and fosphenytoin sodium, and her blood pressure was strictly controlled. 3D-CTA and perfusion CT on postoperative day (POD) 1 demonstrated complete obliteration of the aneurysm, a patent MCA without stenosis . We also observed increased cerebral blood flow (CBF) , increased cerebral blood volume, and a shortened mean transit time. On POD 2, the patient's blood pressure stabilized and her sensory aphasia gradually improved. An MR image obtained on POD 4 showed no abnormality on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery imaging  or diffusion-weighted imaging, but MR angiography demonstrated higher intensity of the inferior trunk than shown on the preoperative image ( , arrowheads). The results of the Standard Language Test of Aphasia on POD 10 were normal, but single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed a persistent increase in the CBF in the left temporoparietal lobe (right vs. left angular area, 47.42 vs. 54.16 ml/100 g/min, respectively; right vs. left temporal area, 43.65 vs. 46.95 ml/100 g/min, respectively) . She was clinically well 3 months after surgery, and SPECT demonstrated no laterality in the CBF.
