dyschromatopsia (5/8 color plates), pupils' equal, and no relative afferent pupil defect. Intraocular pressure (IOP) was 18 mmHg in the right eye and 40 mmHg in the left. Oculomotor nerve palsy, injection, and proptosis were observed in the left eye. His right eye was normal in appearance and exhibited full motility. Based on the imaging results, the patient was taken to the operating room for exploration of the left orbit. No purulence or blood was encountered intraoperatively. A Penrose drain was placed and the incision sites were closed. He was placed on vancomycin, nafcillin, metronidazole, and micafungin antimicrobial therapy. By the evening of the surgery, the patient rapidly decompensated to no light perception vision and worsening proptosis. A revision of the lateral canthotomy with superior cantholysis was performed at bedside. Although his vision initially improved, his exam the next morning showed worsening proptosis and elevated IOP. CT scanning of the orbits and sinuses was notable for proptosis with optic nerve tenting, incomplete thrombosis of the cavernous sinus and superior ophthalmic veins bilaterally, and an abscess of the right pterygoid muscle adjacent to the right maxillary sinus. Based on these findings, the patient subsequently underwent bony decompression of the left orbital floor. The edema, proptosis, and movements in the left eye continued to improve postoperatively. Later during the hospital course, the patient underwent bilateral functional endoscopic sinus surgery of the maxillary, ethmoid, frontal, and sphenoid sinuses. The morning following surgery, the patient developed right third, fourth, and sixth cranial nerve palsies, manifesting with complete ptosis, mydriasis, and total gaze paresis in the right eye . MRI was concerning for a right internal carotid artery (ICA) pseudoaneurysm, which was confirmed by CT angiography . As a result, the patient underwent placement of a 4.5 Â 30 mm pipeline stent into the ICA by the Neurosurgery service. On discharge, the patient improved to 20/30 vision in both eyes, but continued to exhibit ptosis and absent movements in his right eye.
