A 69-year-old righted-handed man was admitted to our hospital with a disturbance of consciousness and right hemiparesis. Before being brought to our hospital, he had been rescued from a fire in his apartment by firefighters. The patient had a history of hypertension, drinking and smoking. He was 167 cm tall and weighed 52.4 kg. Upon admission, his body temperature was 37.6, his blood pressure was 170/106 mmHg and his heart rate was 106 beats/min with a regular sinus rhythm. No cardiac murmurs or carotid bruits were audible, and the skin appeared normal. A neurological examination revealed a disturbance of consciousness (Glasgow Coma Scale, 12), motor aphasia, right horizontal gaze palsy, right central facial palsy, dysarthria and right hemiparesis. An extensor plantar response was present on the right side, and the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score was 16. The laboratory data showed an elevated blood cell count, with a white blood cell count of 11,440/μL, a hemoglobin level of 17.8 g/dL and platelet count of 34.1×10 4 / μL. The serum blood glucose level was 137 mg/dL, the hemoglobin A1c level was 5.7% and the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level was 244 mg/dL. In addition, the inter national normalized ratio was 1.12, the activated partial thromboplastin time was 24.4 s and the D-dimer level was 1.9 μg/mL. The patient's thyroid function was normal, with a free T4 level of 1.13 ng/dL, free T3 level of 2.51 pg/mL and thyroid-stimulating hormone level of 0.85 μU/mL. The protein C and S levels were also within the normal limits, and tests for antithrombin, anticardiolipin antibodies, antinuclear antibodies, anti-DNA antibodies, lupus anticoagulant and anti-β2GPI antibodies were negative. Carotid ultrasonography showed no significant stenosis. The patient was subsequently examined using a 1.5-T magnetic resonance unit (Signa EchoSpeed Horizon, GE Medical Systems, Milwaukee, USA), and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) showed hyperintense lesions in the right cerebellum and on the left side of the frontal lobe. Furthermore, occlusion of the left ACA and MCA was seen on magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and digital-subtraction angiography ( DSA ) demonstrated collateral vessels, showing a moyamoya vessel originating from the left proximal MCA . Moreover, DSA revealed dilated lesions in the cavernous portion of the left ICA, representing the so-called " string-of-beads " phenomenon. Although mild, a similar appearance was apparent in the contralateral ICA. Comparable changes were also present in the right posterior cerebral artery; however, no occlusion or similar findings were noted in the contralateral MCA. Transthoracic echocardiography showed stenosis of the middle left ventricle, and computed tomography angiography identified serial calcification of the abdominal aorta. Based on the patient's advanced age and history of smoking and drinking and the findings of unilateral occlusion and arteriosclerotic changes in the heart and aorta, we initially diagnosed him with ischemic stroke due to ACA occlusion. The etiology of both the MCA and ACA occlusion was considered to be atherosclerosis, although the dilated lesions were atypical. The family history elicited from his nephew revealed that the patient's 61-year-old brother had experienced hemorrhagic stroke at 47 years of age; this brother had been injured in the same fire and transferred to another hospital. We subsequently examined him using MRA and identified bilateral ICA occlusion. Interestingly, a dilated appearance was observed in the petrous and cervical portions of the left ICA. In addition, he had been diagnosed with moyamoya disease after DSA performed at 47 years of age revealed moyamoya vessels in the bilateral basal ganglia . Based on these findings, we suspected that our elderly patient had developed ischemic-onset quasi-moyamoya disease. After obtaining written informed consent from his legal representatives, a genetic analysis was performed (M.I. and K. H. at Hokkaido University). DNA specimens purified from
