A 54-year-old man presented with concerning deterioration in mental status and subsequently was admitted to a psychiatric facility. Past medical history was significant for schizophrenia and his medications included clozapine, ziprasidone, sertraline, clonazepam, and lorazepam. His level of consciousness continued to decompensate over the next 48 h with increasing confusion and slurred speech. A head computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a subarachnoid hemorrhage in an aneurysmal pattern, prompting transfer to our Neurocritical Intensive Care Unit (NICU). It was suspected that the aSAH was present upon the initial presentation to the psychiatric facility. Clozapine therapy continued while at the psychiatric facility and resumed after transfer to the NICU after psychiatric consultation. Sertraline and lorazepam were also continued while ziprasidone and clonazepam were not. Initial hemodynamic monitoring revealed a sinus tachycardia of 105 beats/min (bpm) and a blood pressure of 100/86 mm Hg. Upon arrival to the NICU, the patient's speech was nonsensical and he was not able to follow commands. Further decline in his level of consciousness necessitated endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation. A repeat head CT demonstrated mild hydrocephalus and a ventriculostomy with placement of an external ventricular drain (EVD). He was taken for catheter angiography which demonstrated a left anterior communicating artery (ACom) aneurysm as well as moderate vasospasm in the left middle cerebral artery (MCA), M1 segment and the left anterior cerebral artery (ACA), A1 segment. During the angiogram, the ACom aneurysm was successfully coiled and balloon angioplasty of the left MCA completed. Poor distal antegrade flow in the left ACA territories was treated with 5 mg of intraarterial verapamil administered to the proximal left ACA, A1 segment. Following the procedure, during which he remained normotensive, he was taken for a repeat head CT which did not show any evidence of cerebral infarction. Repeated bolus and continued infusion of sodium chloride 0.9 % was able to maintain euvolemia, yet hemodynamic augmentation was required to target a goal MAP of greater than 110 mm Hg (baseline 73 mm Hg at the time of vasopressor initiation). Initially, phenylephrine was trialed at a dose of 0.4 mcg/kg/min with no change noted in MAP. Norepinephrine initiation at 0.2 mcg/kg/min resulted in an increase in MAP to 120 mm Hg but an increasing dose was required to maintain the goal MAP. Norepinephrine requirements escalated to 0.5 mcg/kg/min while MAP continued to decrease. Dobutamine was trialed at 7.5 mcg/ kg/min in addition to 0.5 mcg/kg/min of norepinephrine. The MAP was maintained at 120 mm Hg; however, the heart rate persisted above 120 bpm. At this time, norepinephrine was reduced to 0.3 mcg/kg/min resulting in a decrease in MAP from 120 to 100 mm Hg. Due to persistent tachycardia and potential for vasodilatory effects with dobutamine, it was discontinued. Epinephrine at a dose of 0.15 mcg/kg/min was then added to the norepinephrine 0.3 mcg/kg/min. This led to a further decline in MAP to the mid-90s and tachycardia with heart rates greater than 120 bpm. Norepinephrine was increased to 0.4 mcg/kg/min and epinephrine decreased to 0.1 mcg/kg/min with MAP persisting in the mid-90s. Epinephrine was discontinued and vasopressin was started at 0.04 units/min. This resulted in rapid restoration of the MAP goal and allowed for the decrease of norepinephrine to 0.3 mcg/kg/min. Due to clozapine's strong alpha-1 effects and the potential interaction with vasopressors, clozapine was discontinued. Sudden right hemiparesis and aphasia developed the following morning necessitating repeat angiography. This revealed worsening vasospasm in the left ACA, A1 segment, ACom, and intercerebral artery, A2 segment, not amenable to angioplasty and rather treated with an additional 5 mg of intraarterial verapamil. The patient continued to demonstrate right-sided hemiparesis and aphasia. A CT of the head revealed evolving infarction in the left ACA territory as well as genu of the internal capsule. The patient continued on vasopressor support for 6 days and the EVD remained in place for 8 days following the initial intervention. Clozapine was gradually reintroduced without difficulty. Brain rehabilitation and speech therapy guided cares until he was transferred to a skilled nursing facility approximately 3 weeks after his ICU admission.
