A 23-year-old man had a history of recurrent cerebral infarction localized to the vascular territory of posterior circulation. He had no conventional vascular risk factors for stroke. Laboratory findings including lipid profile, D-dimer level, and autoimmune antibody tests were unremarkable. In addition, cardioembolism was excluded after a detailed cardiological evaluation including electrocardiography, * Correspondence: hgroh@kuh.ac.kr 2 Department of Radiology, Konkuk University School of Medicine, Neungdong-ro 120-1, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Full list of author information is available at the end of the article echocardiography, 24-hr Holter monitoring, and cardiac CT. In his first stroke, he experienced dizziness of sudden onset (first stroke, July 2008). Brain MRI showed acute infarction in the vascular territory of the right superior cerebellar artery . He started taking aspirin (100 mg), clopidogrel (75 mg), and atorvastatin (10 mg). Interestingly, a small hook-shaped anomalous occipital bony process from the left occipital base compressing the left vertebral artery was observed . Although we could not exclude the possibility of arterial thromboembolism originating from the compressed left vertebral artery, we preferred medical treatment instead of invasive intervention. Two months later, he experienced dizziness again (second stroke, September 2008). Brain MRI showed acute infarction in the left cerebellum and paramedian pons with thromboembolus at the distal basilar artery . Then, cilostazol (200 mg) and warfarin were added to his regimen. One month later, warfarin was withdrawn for the concern of bleeding in long-term anticoagulation. However, triple antiplatelet therapy including aspirin, clopidogrel, and cilostazol was continued. Nine months later, he experienced left arm weakness (third stroke, June 2009). Brain MRI revealed acute infarction in the right medial thalamus and paravermian cerebellum along with thromboembolus at the distal basilar artery . Warfarin was added again to triple antiplatelet therapy. He recovered without neurological deficit. Ten months later, warfarin was withdrawn again for the concern of bleeding in long-term anticoagulation. Three years later, he experienced dysarthria and ataxia (fourth stroke, May 2012). Acute infarction was found in the vascular territory of the left posterior inferior cerebellar artery. CT angiography revealed thromboembolus at the distal basilar artery again . To examine the causal relation between recurrent arterial thromboembolism and compression of the left vertebral artery, dynamic time-of-flight MR angiography was performed in 3 positions: neutral, right-, or leftsided head rotation. Stenosis of the left vertebral artery was observed in the neutral position and was slightly aggravated when the head was turned to the right side . There was no remarkable finding in the repeated complete stroke work-ups except for stenosis of the left vertebral artery. Therefore, we were convinced about the causal relationship between recurrent arterial Medication history and findings of diffusion-weighted MRI and angiography of five recurrent strokes. (A: first stroke; B: second stroke; C: third stroke; D: fourth stroke; E: fifth stroke). Recurrent thromboemboli were observed in the distal basilar artery (arrows). Finally, the left vertebral artery was permanently occluded with detachable coils after the fifth stroke. thromboembolism and stenosis of the left vertebral artery compressed by the anomalous occipital bony process. Because the third and fourth strokes recurred when anticoagulation therapy was discontinued, we added warfarin again in addition to the triple antiplatelet therapy. However, unfortunately, the fifth stroke presenting right-sided weakness and facial palsy occurred under adequate anticoagulation and triple antiplatelet therapy (fifth stroke, September 2012). Acute left paramedian pontine infarction and irregular thromboembolus at the distal basilar artery were observed . Emergency intra-arterial suction thrombectomy was performed and the basilar artery was completely recanalized. Conventional cerebral angiography revealed compression of the left vertebral artery even in the neutral position and was slightly aggravated when the head was rotated to the right side. However, there was no definite flow disturbance according to head rotation. Because of the recurrent infarctions under optimal medical treatment including anticoagulation and triple antiplatelet therapy, we decided to perform endovascular occlusion of the left vertebral artery by coiling. He tolerated the internal trapping procedure following balloon occlusion test without any neurological complication . Triple antiplatelet therapy was continued for 5 months and tapered one by one. Currently, there has been no recurrence of stroke for 2 years after permanent occlusion of the left vertebral artery.
