24 year old female known to have hereditary spastic paraplegia presented with intermittent headache for one year, and a two month history of lower abdominal pain and vomiting. Born out of a non-consanguineous union, four of her siblings had heriditary spastic paraplegia. She was found to be severely pale, icteric, all peripheral pulsations were palpable equally and blood pressure was 90/60 mm of Hg. Systemic examination showed mild splenomegaly and spastic paraplegia. Hemoglobin was 3.1 g/dl, total leucocyte count 4200/ml, platelet count 0.76 Â 10 9 /L, ESR 105 mm in1h and CRP was normal. The hematocrit-corrected ESR level was 21 mm/hr. In the peripheral smear RBCs were microcytic, hypochromic with polychromasia, dacryocytes and nucleated red blood corpuscles (RBCs), white blood corpuscles (WBCs) were normal and platelet count was reduced mildly. The corrected reticulocyte count was 3%, direct and indirect Coombs tests were negative. Urinalysis showed trace albumin with 2–4 leucocytes/high power fields. Biochemical parameters showed random blood sugar (RBS) 121 mg%, urea13 mg/dl, creatinine 0.6 mg/dl, sodium 134 mmol/l, potassium 3.6 mmol/l, aspartate transaminase (AST) 39 IU/l, alanine transaminase (ALT) 31 IU/l, alkaline phosphatase 76 IU/l, total bilirubin 3.1 mg/dl, direct bilirubin 0.1 mg/dl, total protein 6.1 g/dl, albumin 3.1 g/dl,globulin 3.0 g/dl. Chest X-ray and electrocardiogram were normal. Prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin times were normal. Serum LDH was 2549 IU/L. HIV, hepatitis B and hepatitis C serologies were negative. Ultrasonography of abdomen showed minimal left perinephric collection, a right renal calculus, mild splenomegaly and bilateral polycystic ovaries. CT scan of abdomen showed diffusely enlarged bilateral adrenal glands suggestive ofbilateral adrenal hemorrhage and mild splenomegaly . Morning serum cortisol was 1.8 mg/dL. CT scan of brain revealed sub-acute to chronic subtle subdural hemorrhage on left side, nonspecific soft tissue thickening over scalp possibly hemorrhage/ edema and preseptal soft tissue thickening seen in both orbits . Bone marrow was hypercellular with marked erythroid hyperplasia and increased normoblasts, normal myeloid series and megakaryocytes were increased in number with normal maturation. ANA was positive and anti double stranded DNA was strongly positive. C3 and C4 levels were low (50 mg/dl and 11 mg/dl, respectively). IgG, IgM aPL, IgG and IgM beta2 glycoprotein and lupus anticoagulant tests were negative. This 24 year old female who presented with bilateral adrenal, subdural, soft tissue (scalp and orbit) hemorrhages had SLE with negative APS. She was started on high dose steroids; she became well and was sent home on oral steroids. When she returned for review after one month, blood counts were normal, antiphospholipid antibodies were still negative and she was symptom free.
