Case 1. A 16-year-old African American female with SCA, HbSS, and a history of overt stroke at 4 years of age, was admitted to the hospital for generalized body pains, fever, shortness of breath, and productive cough. She was initially started on regular blood transfusion therapy, but was switched to hydroxyurea therapy because of her family's decision to stop regular blood transfusion therapy. At presentation, her vital signs were: BP 140/60 mm Hg, pulse rate 125, temperature 102.5°F, and oxygen saturation was 93% on room air. Baseline Hb was 7 gm/dL. Chest radiographs showed left lower lobe opacity suggestive of lobar pneumonia. On day 6 of hospitalization, she was found on the floor, combative and disoriented with seizure-like activity. She was intubated for airway protection. Initial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance venogram (MRV) revealed new acute infarcts in the left parietal, bilateral temporal, and occipital lobes. Initial supportive care measures included management of severe agitation, delirium, and seizure activity. Hb S percentage (HbS%) on admission was 87%, and she received initial simple transfusion followed subsequently by exchange transfusion, with a goal HbS% of 15% or less and target hematocrit of 28%.For personal use only. on April 5, 2017. by guest www.bloodjournal.org From consistent with an infarct in the left hemisphere. His MRI showed an acute lacunar stroke in the left corona radiata, as well as old deep lacunae in bilateral basal ganglia. His MRV of the brain did not reveal any central sinus venous thrombosis (CSVT). He was evaluated by a multidisciplinary team (ie, a hematologist, neurologist, neuroradiologist, and laboratory transfusion medicine specialist). Thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator was initially considered but was contraindicated based on prolonged duration of symptoms. NonSCD–related risk factors were thought to be most likely associated with etiology of the stroke. He was admitted to the stroke service for further management. Case 1. Patient was started on exchange transfusion every 28 days with the goal of keeping her maximum HbS ,30% and an IEP was established after meeting with school personnel. Her HIC using GRE/T2* MRI was estimated to be 22.2 mg/g dry weight 76 and increased to 23.6 mg/g dry weight after 1 year despite oral chelation therapy with deferasirox (40 mg/kg per day). Thus, we started dual chelation therapy with outpatient deferasirox (40 mg/kg per day) plus inpatient IV deferoxamine (50 mg/kg per day over 48 hours every 4 weeks). 80,81 Given the multiple options of therapy for this patient, a family meeting was deemed critical to ensure a full understanding of the tradeoffs for a secondary stroke prevention option. The possibility of stopping transfusion therapy was mentioned with the recognition that this would have the highest rate of recurrence. 88,89 We also discussed the evidence that regular blood transfusion is not the definitive therapy, and we expect 45% of patients will have a new cerebral infarct 7 over a course of 5.5 years. Based on the palliative nature of regular blood transfusion therapy, we offered the family the option of an Institutional Review Board approved HLA-haploidentical HSCT with posttransplant cyclophosphamide. 75 The family declined this option. Case 2. Six months after the stroke, uncontrolled risk factors, such as hypertension and diabetes mellitus were better controlled with the addition of a primary care provider to his management team. We discussed with the family secondary stroke prevention strategies, such as regular blood transfusion therapy, hydroxyurea therapy, and the option of an experimental transplant (unrelated donor, umbilical cord blood, or haploidentical SCT). The patient opted for chronic transfusion therapy.
