A man, aged 70 years, with progressive occipital headache and nausea was admitted to our ward. He had a clinical history of hypertension that was being treated with ramipril 5 mg per day. The rest of his past medical history was unremarkable. On admission, he was afebrile with a blood pressure of 140/70 mmHg. Physical and neurological examinations were normal with no evidence of meningism or any focal neurological deficit. A CT scan was performed showing SAH in the right parietal lobe . MRI confirmed this and, in addition,Cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is infrequent. We present the case of a man with CVT of the right transverse sinus who presented with a SAH in the right parietal sinus. In this case, we describe a hyper-homocysteinemia in a heterozygous patient for the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase C667T mutation. Our report highlights the value of an early diagnosis of CVT, the importance of identifying possible causes that could be reversed with an appropriate treatment, and the controversy about the timing for starting anticoagulation therapy in such cases.showed a thrombosis in the right transverse sinus (figures 2 and 3). The angiography revealed no aneurysm. The patient underwent a complete hemocoagulative study comprehensive of protein C, protein S, antithrombin III, homocysteine, antiphospholipid antibodies and lupus anticoagulant, resistance to activated protein C, factors VIII and VII, mutation analysis of the prothrombin gene, and factor V Leiden. All results were in the normal range except for total homocysteine that was 26 µmol/L (normal value < 15 µmol/L). The levels of folic acid and cobalamine were normal at 5.9 ng/mL (normal range 3-17 ng/mL) and 169 pg/mL (normal range 211-911 pg/mL), respectively. We later found that the patient was heterozygous for the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase C667T mutations. We began treatment with ordinary care. Low-molecular weight heparin, 60 mg once a day, was initiated from admission. The third day after admission, we raised the dose to 120 mg per day for a week. The patient was then started oral anticoagulation after no evidence of worsening of SAH.The current hypothesis is that MTHFR gene mutations (both 677TT and 677CT) raise plasma levels of homocysteine that produce an increased risk for cardiovascular events and that the level of hyperhomocysteine to induce endothelial dysfunction in cerebral vessels is lower than the level needed to produce the same alteration in systemic circulation. 14 The distribution of SAH associated with CVT is usually different from that of SAH of arterial origin, which has a characteristic pattern. In fact, when SAH is localized at the cerebral convexity and spares the basal cisterns and skull base, CVT should be considered. 6 The exact mechanism of cortical SAH caused by CVT is unknown. One possibility is the rupture of venous parenchymal hemorrhagic infarcts into the subarachnoid space, 15,16 although signs of hemorrhagic venous infarction were not found in our patient. Another possible mechanism is venous hypertension and subsequent rupture of dilated, valueless, thin-walled, bridging subarachnoid cortical veins devoid of smooth muscle fibers. 15 This mechanism could be consistent with thatof our patient, because in these cases, SAH usually occurs in the region adjacent to thrombosed veins or sinuses. Finally a third mechanism of SAH development could be a local inflammatory response caused by CVT, which would increase the vascular permeability allowing for extravasation of blood into the subarachnoid space. This mechanism also could have been present in our patient, who had proinflammatory status because of his altered metabolism of homocysteine. In fact, hyperhomocysteinemia is thought to lead to endothelial dysfunction, probably produced by reduction in the availability of nitric oxide, 17 and to an increase of the oxidative stress with alteration of the redox state of the endothelium. 18 Management of SAH secondary to CVT is quite different from that of arterial SAH. The usual treatment of sinus thrombosis is anticoagulation or local thrombolysis. Systemic anticoagulation is the first line treatment for CVT because of its efficacy, safety, and feasibility. 19 In a further placebocontrolled trial, 60 patients were randomized to either lower molecular weight heparin followed by warfarin or placebo. 20 The anticoagulated patients had better outcomes than controls, but the difference was not statistically significant. The investigators suggested that anticoagulation was safe, even in patients with cerebral hemorrhage. 19 However, the present case was not an intraparenchymal hemorrhage, but SAH. We considered that intravenous heparin would deteriorate SAH and preferred to initiate low doses of fractionated heparin, 60 mg once a day. Then, on the third day, we raised doses to 120 mg per day for a week. On the second week, oral anticoagulation was started after no evidence of worsening of SAH. Anticoagulation had not been started so early in other cases reported, 7 because of the high risk of bleeding; although in the present case, knowing that SAH was secondary to CVT, anticoagulation achieved an excellent recovery in the patient.
