sillar abscesses. Trimethoprim–sulfamethoxazole, clindamycin, and intravenous fluids were administered. Two days before the current admission, swelling of the right eyelids and horizontal diplopia developed. On evaluation, there was decreased abduction of the right eye. Imaging studies were obtained. Dr. Jason M. Johnson: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head and neck, performed with and without the administration of contrast material, revealed a multiloculated, rim-enhancing fluid collection in the right parotid gland and inflammation of the masticator space. There was linear enhancement of the pachymeninges in the right temporal region, a finding that raised concern about meningitis. Diffusion-weighted images obtained at the level of the parotid gland showed findings consistent with an abscess. There was an irregularity of the right cavernous sinus, without definite thrombosis. A subperiosteal abscess in the right orbit was also identified. Dr. Morris: The patient was transferred to a third hospital. On examination, she was alert and communicative. The vital signs and oxygen saturation were normal. There was diffuse swelling of the right preauricular and periorbital areas, mild trismus, bilateral cervical submental and submandibular lymphadenopathy (greater on the right side than on the left), and preauricular and postauricular lymphadenopathy on the right side. White plaque was seen on the gingivobuccal sulcus and anterior tongue, which was painful when scraped. The right Stensen's duct was tender on firm compression, with no fluid discharge. ‎On neurologic examination, the right eye had medial deviation, with an inability to abduct past the midline. The patient had mild difficulty with tandem walking. The general and neurologic examinations were otherwise normal. The activated partial-thromboplastin time, red-cell indexes, and results of renal-function tests were normal, as were levels of electrolytes, magnesium, globulin, angiotensin-converting enzyme, and IgG, IgA, and IgM. Tests for heterophile antibodies, antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) types 1 and 2, and HIV nucleic acid were negative; other test results are shown in . Urinalysis revealed trace protein, 3+ glucose, and 2+ urobilinogen, along with squamous epithelial cells and bacteria, findings suggestive of contamination. Dr. Johnson: MRI of the head, orbits, face, and neck, performed with and without the administration of contrast material , reportedly revealed changes consistent with multiple lobulated abscesses in the right parotid gland, with extensive inflammation surrounding the gland that involved the muscles of mastication, as well as a small subperiosteal abscess along the right lateral orbital wall, dural enhancement along the right temporal lobe, and enhancement along the cavernous sinus; these findings were again not thought to constitute definite evidence of thrombosis. Changes consistent with extensive periodontal disease were also seen. Vancomycin, meropenem, and clindamycin were administered. Ultrasound-guided percutaneous fine-needle aspiration of fluid collected in the parotid gland was performed, and the aspirate was cultured. The following day, CT of the sinuses, performed with the administration of contrast material, reportedly revealed preseptal swelling of the right eye extending to the temporal fossa, subperiosThe New England Journal of Medicine Downloaded from nejm.org at LOS ANGELES (UCLA) on April 5, 2017. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright © 2014 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved.
On examination, the patient was somnolent but arousable. The vital signs were normal, as was the oxygen saturation while she was breathing ambient air. The right parotid gland, face, and neck were swollen, with marked periorbital edema of the right eyelid, minimal erythema and tenderness, and no palpable fluctuance; the right eye had 1+ lateral clear chemosis . The right parotid gland was tender. There was a whitish plaque on the inner aspect of the right buccal mucosa, which was tender and had no obvious abscesses. The patient was able to swallow oral secretions. A systolic murmur, grade 1 out of 6, was heard at the left lower sternal border. There was bilateral submandibular lymphadenopathy, greater on the right side than on the left. ‎On neurologic examination, visual acuity was 20/30 in the right eye and 20/20 in the left. In the right eye, supraduction was limited by 50%, abduction was slightly limited, and infraduction and adduction were normal; the left eye had normal motility, with‎ splinting on upgaze. Other cranial-nerve functions (excluding smell, which was not tested) and the remainder of the general and neurologic examinations were normal. Diagnostic procedures were performed, and the patient was admitted to this hospital.
bital edema, erythema, and tenderness. Given these findings, in conjunction with the findings on imaging studies and her worsening clinical course, we made the decision to proceed with urgent drainage of the orbital abscess. A superolateral orbitotomy was performed through a crease of the right upper eyelid. The subperiosteal dissection yielded a small amount of green purulent material, which was cultured.
