The PulseRider is a self-expanding nitinol implant  that is delivered via a standard microcatheter with an inner diameter of 0.021 inches. The device is retrievable and may be repositioned by retracting it into the microcatheter at any time during or after deployment. It is deployed at the parent vessel bifurcation and across the aneurysm neck to provide a supporting framework, bridging the aneurysm neck while retaining coils within the aneurysm. The PulseRider is electrolytically detached from the delivery wire. The T or Y configurations are available according tothe geometry of the daughter vessels arising at the bifurcation with 8-or 10-mm diameters. From June 2014 to February 2015, 15 consecutive patients (9 women and 6 men; mean age, 62.6 years) with 15 unruptured bifurcation IAs (median dome size, 8 mm; median neck size, 5 mm) at 1 US center (Charleston, South Carolina) and 5 European institutions (Lyon and Besançon, France; Florence, Italy; Recklinghausen, Germany; Salzburg, Austria) who were treated with the PulseRider device for IAs were retrospectively analyzed (under institutional review board approved protocol in United States and without approved ethics committee protocols in the European Union). The decision to assist coiling by a PulseRider device was made at the discretion of the senior author. All patients were treated under general anesthesia and full anticoagulation. In addition, double antiplatelet therapy was administered preoperatively according to the operator's protocol.
Case 1. A 60-year-old woman  presented with an incidental large basilar artery aneurysm. Angiography revealed a 17-mm aneurysm with an 8-mm neck. Endovascular treatment was performed by using a PulseRider device with final complete aneurysm occlusion. Angiographic follow-up at 6 months revealed complete aneurysm occlusion with an occlusion of the P1 segment of the posterior cerebral artery, which was supplied by the internal carotid artery via the posterior communicating artery. The patient was asymptomatic.
Case 2. A 50-year-old woman  presented with an incidental finding of a 4.2-mm wide-neck anterior communicating artery aneurysm. Endovascular PulseRider deployment and then coiling was performed. The final angiogram showed a neck remnant.
Case 3. A 60-year-old woman  presented with an unruptured basilar tip aneurysm. Angiography showed a large basilar tip aneurysm with a 4-mm-wide neck. Endovascular treatment was performed by using a PulseRider. The final angiogram showed complete aneurysm occlusion, and MRA at 1 day showed complete aneurysm occlusion.
