KTA cycle was used to guide adaptation of evidence from self-management and TOFT into an approach titled START (Self-Management and Task-Oriented Approach to Rehabilitation Training). Three stakeholder symposiums identified barriers and supports to implementation. Clinical practice leaders were engaged as partners in the development of the intervention. An online learning management system housed the resources to support therapist training. Therapist focus groups were conducted and stroke outcomes were used to assess patient response. The project was undertaken using the steps outlined in the KTA cycle . The emphasis for this project was on the action phase of the cycle because we relied on the investigators, who were content experts and provided the evidence about motor learning and selfmanagement. All participants (both therapists and patients) provided written informed consent prior to enrollment in this project. Hamilton Health Sciences/Faculty of Health Sciences Research Ethics Board reviewed the project and granted ethics approval (REB#08-596).
characteristics. Therapists noted that patient characteristics, such as intact memory, younger age, and initiative, affected their response to therapy. Older patients, compared with younger patients, were less engaged in problem solving, setting treatment goals and planning for discharge. Recordkeeping was difficult for some patients. Patients with more recent strokes were less inclined to address chronicity issues through selfmanagement strategies. Motivation to change was an important characteristic to engage the patient in the START therapy. Patients with a personal support worker to assist with bathing or dressing were less motivated to engage in therapy.
Therapist characteristics. Some therapists were early adopters of the intervention, whereas others had difficulty providing less direction to the patients. Some therapists needed more time for training than we had allowed: the home environment, as the therapists were able to deliver the intervention and the patients were recruited and participated in the intervention.
Therapists reported it was easiest to involve motivated patients who could engage in the cognitive activities required by both intervention components. We did not formally assess motivation, which would be important in a larger trial.
The self-management component was based on a generic program and engaged the patient individually. This format provided a more tailored intervention but lost the benefits of group discussions of barriers and solutions to issues and the sharing of a common experience. A recent systematic review of the literature on self-efficacy and self-management poststroke concluded that the optimal format for delivering an SM intervention poststroke is not clear 39 ; however, therapists can successfully engage patients about lifestyle issues. 40 Stroke-specific selfmanagement programs have resulted in greater participation compared with generic programs, but these are group programs and not adapted or tested for individual patients. 21 Delivery of self-management created a more holistic role for therapists, addressing issues such as fatigue that affect the patient's function and ongoing reintegration into prestroke roles. 41– 43 Incorporating selfmanagement within the home takes a preventative approach to longerterm issues previously left to the patient and caregiver. In general, patients were satisfied with the rehabilitation that they received in the home. The low level of satisfaction related to the Accessibility and Convenience subscale of the PSQ-18 was an unanticipated finding. One possible explanation for this finding might be that patients were asked to " keep in mind the rehabilitation they received over the previous 18 months, " which could have included any combination of inpatient, outpatient, and in-home therapy. As a result, their scores may be a reflection of their lack of satisfaction with access to and waiting times for their rehabilitation in general, not just the rehabilitation they received in the home.
The use of standardized patients during initial practice sessions may have enabled therapists to gain greater proficiency before engaging with an actual patient. The therapists expressed greater satisfaction using the START intervention to deliver rehabilitation in the home, as it enabled them to have more visits and to make observations and offer solutions about the patients' functioning earlier in their recovery. This project was limited to the adoption of the START intervention by professionals rather than integration within a health system. A randomized design with an economic analysis is needed to determine whether the START intervention versus usual care results in improved functional outcomes and more efficient and satisfying community reintegration.
