A 49-year-old male taxis driver had O blood type; weight, 65 kg; height, 159 cm; and body mass index, 25.7 kg/m 2. He had been addicted to 1.5 packs of cigarette per day for three decades. He did not suffer hypertension, heart disease or hyperlipidemia, but had regularly received hypodermal injection of insulin for type II diabetic mellitus for two years. He presented with sore throat, right facial swelling and fever for two days. Vital signs were measured showing body temperature, 37.9°C; blood pressure, 127/90 mmHg; heart rate, 118/min; and respiration rate, 20/min. Physical examination showed that the bilateral tonsils and retropharyngeal mucosa were congested swelling; besides, a fixed tender congested swelling about 7 × 10 cm was palpated over his right neck level II, including the right parotid region, and the other neck levels were unremarkable. Blood examination reported leukocytosis with monocytosis, atypical lymphocytosis and thrombocytopenia. Moreover, both blood amylase and C-reactive protein (CRP) were high . Cytomegalovirus (CMV) IgM, mumps and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) I/II antibody were negative. Although anti-Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen (EBNA) titer was 1/40 (normal reference, 1/1 or 1/10), anti-EBV viral capsule antigen (VCA) IgM was negative, and anti-EBV VCA IgG was positive. The biochemistry, fasting blood sugars, and lipid profile were within normal ranges. Contrast enhanced computed tomography disclosed swelling of right parotid gland and neighboring lymph nodes . Abdomen ultrasonography showed moderate splenomegaly. Thus, he was diagnosed with IM with fever, pharyngitis, parotiditis with lymphadenopathies, thrombocytopenia and splenomegaly. Then he was admitted for supportive treatment. Oral prednisolone (Donison, China Chemical & Pharmaceutical Co, Taiwan) 10 mg twice daily was prescribed. The blood sugar was controlled with diabetic mellitus diet and hypodermal injection of insulin (NovoMix 30 Penfill 300 IU/3 ml, Novo Nordisk A/S, Denmark) 12 units twice daily, before breakfast and dinner. Two weeks later, the sore throat remitted, right neck mass became a non-tender cold mass of less than 1 × 1 cm, and body temperature was 36.5°C, but his left upper limb became too weak to lift up in the morning. There was not any headache, vertigo, tinnitus, hearing block, dysarthria, dysphagia, dysphonia, blurred vision or diplopia. He was still clear. His judgement, orientation, memory, attention, and calculation were all intact. Neurologic examinations showed olfactory sensations to coffee powders were good, and the six directions of eyeball movements were smooth; but left central-type facial palsy was noted. There was not any lingual weakness, palatal weakness, gargle reflex absence, swallowing difficult, hemineglect or cortical sign. The neck was flexible without any meningeal sign. The muscle power was grade 0 (Medical Research Council Scale) in the left upper limb and grade 5 in the other three limbs. His left-side facial, limb and trunk surfaces were less sensitive to pain. The deep tendon reflex was 2+ inthe value above and below the normal reference, respectively. the four limbs. The bilateral Babinski plantar extensor responses were flexor. Emergent computed tomography disclosed a hypodense area at the right frontal lobe . The National Institutes of Health stroke scale (NIHSS) was scored 7. Blood examination reported protein C, protein S, anti-thrombin III, homocysteine, prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time within normal range, but D-Dimer of 334 µg/L, which was out of normal range (0.0–324.0). Anti-nuclear antibody, anti-cardiolipin antibodies, and lupus anticoagulant were all negative. Thyroid function tests were within normal ranges. Moreover, blood amylase returned to the normal range, but leukocytosis with monocytosis, atypical lymphocytosis, thrombocytopenia, and high CRP persisted . In view of the underlying IM, he was prescribed oral prednisolone 10 mg twice daily and oral antiplatelet aspirin (Bokey, Yung Shin Pham Ind. Co., Taiwan) 100 mg once rather than immediate intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA). Two days later, muscle power in the left upper limb was still grade 0. Magnetic resonance image demonstrated acute infarction involving the right frontal lobe , and there was not any leptomeningeal or brain parenchyma enhancement by Gadolinium contrast. Magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA) illustrated all the intracranial or extracranial circulations were normal. Color-coded carotidThe emergent brain computed tomography revealed a hypodense area at right frontal lobe (hollow arrows). (C) Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated an acute infarction in right frontal lobe (filled arrows), which was high-intensity signal lesion at diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) (TR/ TE/excitation: 9,212/144/1) and low-intensity signal lesion at apparent diffusion coefficient mapping (ADC) (TR/TE/excitation: 9,212/144/1). duplex (CCCD) and transcranial Doppler sonography (TCDS) were both unremarkable. Blood examination still showed leukocytosis with monocytosis, atypical lymphocytosis and thrombocytopenia , but D-dimer was normal. Transesophageal cardiac Doppler (TECD) did not demonstrate any thrombus formation in the heart. Electrocardiogram and 24-hour Holter did not demonstrate any arrthymia or other abnormality. Over the following month, rehabilitation was scheduled. Finally, the muscle power in the left upper limb was restored to grade 3, left central-type facial palsy persisted, while left hemihypesthesia subsided. Laboratory data were unremarkable , so the oral prednisolone was ceased. He was discharged, and received office-based rehabilitation daily. One year later, the muscle powers in all four limbs were grade 5 and left central-type facial palsy subsided. His condition was uneventful over the following three years.
