A female smoker in the third decade of life was diagnosed with a first objectively confirmed unprovoked VTE episode with bilateral pulmonary embolism. Four weeks following discontinuation of warfarin anticoagulation therapy, she has a recurrence of bilateral pulmonary embolism associated with inferior vena cava and right renal vein thrombosis. Her risk factors include a body mass index of 33 kg/m 2 and a subcutaneous progestin contraceptive implanted shortly before the recurrence. While she is stable on warfarin anticoagulation she was admitted with severe and persistent headaches despite regular analgesia; urgent imaging confirmed transverse venous sinus thrombosis. She was switched over to therapeutic low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH). This thrombosis occurred in the setting of adequate international normalised ratio (INR) time in therapeutic range of 73% at standard intensity 2.0–3.0. She had a through prothrombotic workup including genetic thrombophilia and search for cancer. Persistently positive antiphospholipid antibody in the form of lupus anticoagulant (LA) was demonstrated. Additionally, she has no evidence of occult myeloproliferative disorder as evidenced by negative Janus kinase 2 and no evidence of a paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria clone on flow cytometry. A previously fit and healthy female non-smoker in the third decade of life presented to our Accident & Emergency (A&E) department with a week's history of worsening temporal headaches. Over the preceding 24 h she developed sudden-onset pleuritic chest pain associated with breathlessness. She has no relevant past medical illness and no family history of thrombosis, with normal body mass index, but is known to have sickle cell trait and commenced recently on a second-generation combined contraceptive pill. On admission she was in pain and distress, had tachycardia with a pulse 112 bpm, BP 105/65 mm Hg, O 2 saturation 91%, but otherwise haemodynamically stable. An ECG and urgent chest radiograph showed no significant abnormality with no evidence of pericarditis, pneumonia or pneumothorax. An urgent Computed Tomography Pulmonary Angiography confirmed mid and lower zone bilateral pulmonary emboli. She was commenced on therapeutic LMWH with good symptomatic response of chest symptoms and the headaches with discontinuation of analgesia within 72 h. Subsequent urgent neurological imaging confirmed transverse and sigmoid venous sinus thrombosis. Later, a detailed prothrombotic workup confirmed persistent LA, and high-titre IgG anticardiolipin (aCL) antibody and moderate-titre IgG anti-β 2 GP-1 antibody. She was subsequently warfarinised for life. During the last 7 years she had three uneventful pregnancies with good outcome with LMWH cover throughout pregnancy.
A normally built male smoker in the fourth decade of life presented with progressive non-specific headaches unresponsive to high dose paracetamol. While in A&E, he vomited several times but remained alert, orientated and cooperative with no haemodynamic compromise or focal neurological signs. Fundal examination confirmed unilateral papilloedema. An urgent brain imaging confirmed the presence of extensive transverse venous sinus thrombosis. His symptoms settled fairly soon following anticoagulation with therapeutic LMWH initially and later with warfarin. Subsequent detailed prothrombotic workup confirmed the presence of persistent LA and moderately raised IgG anti-β 2 GP-1 antibody titre. The remainder of his prothrombotic workup was unremarkable. Our three patients share the diagnosis of CVST with APS as the underlying aetiology. As thrombosis is a multifaceted condition, other risk factors for thrombosis were considered (eg, inherited thrombophilia, combined oral contraceptive (OC), pregnancy, immobilisation, obesity, surgery and the presence of SLE in addition to their aPL antibody. A thorough search for such conditions helps to properly risk-stratify these patients' thrombosis risk. In cases 1 and 2 the use of hormonal contraception is an additional risk factor for thrombosis. In cases 1 and 2 the CVST was in association with thrombosis elsewhere occurring either simultaneously or as a separate event to the CVST. In all cases treatment with LMWH resulted in good symptomatic response. Prothrombotic workup performed later showed persistent aPLs. Antiphospholipid antibody testing includes LA (by dilute Russell Viber Venom Test (dRVVT) screen and dRVVT confirm) and antibodies against cardiolipin and β 2 GP-1 were tested for by ELISA. Other thrombophilia tests including protein C activity, antithrombin III activity, free protein S antigen and homocysteine level were included, along with testing for Factor V Leiden and G202110A mutations. Antinuclear antibodies, antidouble stranded DNA antibodies, extractable antigens (ENA) and rheumatoid factor were tested for to exclude a secondary aetiology for the APS. In view of the aggressive thrombotic presentation in young subjects other rarer causes of thrombosis were excluded including Janus kinase 2 exon 14 and paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria by flow cytometry prior to establishing the diagnosis of APS which is reviewed in this article in addition to its clinical manifestations and therapeutic options.
