This case report was reviewed by the University of Louisville institutional review board.
History and Examination A 12-year-old right-handed girl presented with severe headaches. Brain MRI showed a 3.2-cm left posterior frontal arteriovenous malformation (AVM; Spetzler-Martin Grade III) and mild surrounding vasogenic edema. There were no signs of hemorrhage. The patient was initially treated with a 2-week course of steroids and her headaches significantly improved and MRI revealed decreased edema. After considering treatment options including observation, endovascular embolization, and/or resection, the patient and her family chose stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). She underwent SRS in which a 21-Gy radiation dose was prescribed to the AVM (lesion volume 9.9 cm 3 ). Eight months later, the patient presented with severe headaches and focal seizures affecting her right arm and leg. Brain MRI at this time demonstrated increasing T2 FLAIR signal and new Gd signal on the T1-weighted sequences ( left and right, respectively). The patient was treated with antiepileptic medication for her seizures and oral steroids for her presumed RN. Her seizure episodes resolved, but her severe headache persisted. She was initially started on 24 mg per day of dexamethasone that was tapered over 3 weeks. Because of worsening headache and progressively worsening right hemiparesis, repeated attempts to reduce dexamethasone dose below 6 mg daily proved unsuccessful over the ensuing 9 months. Courses of pentoxifylline, vitamin E, and hyperbaric oxygen were all administered per study protocols, without success. 15,24 Despite these interventions, her proximal right upper and lower extremities declined to Grade 4/5 strength and her right hand and foot declined to Grade 0/5 strength. She experienced a 60-pound weight gain and severe cushingoid features. She complained of constant severe headache (10/10 on the visual analog scale). She also experienced severe emotional lability, causing her to withdraw from school.
History and Examination An 11-year-old right-handed girl presented with right hemiparesis, headache, nausea, and vomiting. Head CT scanning revealed intraparenchymal and intraventricular hemorrhage and hydrocephalus. She required temporary external ventricular drainage. MRI imaging demonstrated a Spetzler-Martin Grade II AVM of the corpus callosum. She underwent embolization 2 months later with only partial obliteration. She then underwent SRS for the residual AVM nidus with an 18-Gy radiation dose prescribed to a volume of 4.3 cm 3. Within the 1st month after treatment, the patient developed moderate headache, which responded to a 2-week course of steroids. Six months after SRS, she developed mild to moderate headaches, which initially responded to ibuprofen. MRI showed evidence of mild vasogenic edema surrounding the AVM site. Eight months after radiosurgery, she developed intractable headaches that were associated with nausea and vomiting. Repeat MRI demonstrated worsening cerebral edema with new contrast enhancement consistent with RN in the left frontal lobe . There were no associated motor or sensory symptoms. A 21-day course of steroid treatment, starting with 24 mg per day of dexamethasone, was initiated. This steroid treatment could not, however, be tapered below 8 mg daily over the ensuing 3 months because of the patient's recurrent severe headache, nausea, and vomiting. Courses of pentoxifylline and vitamin E were tried without success. Over time, she developed significant steroid-related symptoms. She also required a hospitalization for fluid overload. In less than 3 months, the patient gained over 30 pounds and had a body mass index of 25.5. As a result of her symptoms, she too had to withdraw from school.
