A 29-year-old Italian woman came to a neurology unit with a headache and speech impairment. A computed tomography scan revealed an ischemic infarction in the left temporoparietal area. Family history was unremarkable. She had been affected since 10 years of age by diabetes mellitus, treated with oral antidiabetics, and by mild renal failure. General examination showed short stature and hirsutism, whereas a mild-to-moderate left hemiparesis with expressive aphasia was detected at neurological examination. Laboratory tests, including coagulation markers, autoimmunity, and thyroid function, were within the normal range, but glycemia was (190 mg/dL and cholesterol was 303 mg/dL. Cardiological evaluation, including transesophageal echocardiogram, was normal. Because the stroke was still of undetermined origin, the patient underwent brain magnetic resonance imaging demonstrating several areas of increased signal intensity (flair, proton density (PD), and T2) in the left temporoparietal cortex, bilaterally in the cerebellum, and in the posterior part of the left thalamus, with loss of cortico-subcortical differentiation and reduction of signal intensity in these areas on T1 images. Brain magnetic resonance angiography showed no intracranial vascular abnormality. Because MELAS diagnosis was suspected, an acid lactic test (>460 UI/mL) and genetic test (A to G at nucleotide position 3243 of mitochondrial DNA mutation) were performed and definitively confirmed the diagnosis. The patient came to our neurorehabilitation research center after about 6 months after stroke onset. Because the patient was in the poststroke chronic phase, we decided to treat her by using an intensive cognitive rehabilitation protocol, including three different kinds of training. The patient underwent 2-month TCT, based on a face-to-face approach between therapist and patient, using paper-and-pencil tools. We then used the Italian platform ERICA ( " Esercizi Riabilitativi Cognitivi per Adulti, " i.e., Adult Cognitive Rehabilitation Exercises) characterized by specific computerized task-oriented exercises with a progressive and modularity difficulty, regarding five peculiar cognitive domains: attention, spatial cognition, memory, and verbal and no verbal executive function. Finally, we performed the CCT combined with a low-intensity aerobic motor exercise (20 min of cyclette at low frequency; CCT plus ). Two-week intervals separated each training session, which consisted of 3 sessions weekly for 2 months (for a total of 24 rehabilitative sessions). The patient underwent a neuropsychological and clinical evaluation before (T0) and after each rehabilitative cycle (Time 1 , Time 2 , Time 3
). Neuropsychological status was assessed by a skilled neuropsychologist through a proper battery to investigate cognitive domains such as language, attention abilities, memory, learning, executive functioning, and depression pathology. The battery included: the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) to test general cognitive functioning; the Aachen Aphasie (AAT) to assess spontaneous speech and comprehension and communication skills; the attentive matrices to evaluate the selective attention process; the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test Immediate and Recall (RAVLI; RAVLR) to estimate verbal memory abilities; the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRS-D) to detect the presence of depression symptoms; and the Coping Orientation to Problem Experienced-New Italian Version to evaluate copying styles in five large, essentially independent dimensions including: social support (ss), voidance strategies (vs), positive attitude, problem solving, and turning to religion. An assessment in balance and walking was also performed by means of the Tinetti scale. Raw neuropsychological data (see ) were transformed to interval-level data (logits) and rescaled on a scale from 0 to 100. Hence, the Wilcoxon signed-rank test was used to examine neurobehavioral changes after each rehabilitative cycle.), with inadequate and dysfunctional coping strategies (ss ¼ 15; vs ¼ 26). The Tinetti scales indicated a severe imbalance in stance (p.7/16) and walk (p.4/16). Moreover, the patient showed severe depression (HRS-D ¼ 27). After the end of the TCT (T1), depression symptoms improved (À18%) and a mild improvement in balance (þ14%) and walk (þ50%) were detected. Nevertheless, we did not observe a significant improvement in nearly all the psychometric tests (p ¼ .2). After training with ERICA (CCT; T2), we found a mild improvement, but it was still nonsignificant in comparison to T0 (p ¼ .1) or T1 (p ¼ .1), in other specific cognitive abilities, with regard to the selective attention process (þ29%) and immediate and delayed recall on the RAVLI (þ27%) and RAVLR (þ11%). We also observed an improvement in some lan
