case 1 A 17-year-old boy presented with altered mental status to an outside hospital and was found to have an intraparenchymal hemorrhage. A formal angiogram demonstrated a high-flow pial AVF fed primarily from the right VA ( –C). The patient underwent an unsuccessful subtotal embolization at an outside facility and transferred to our institution for definitive management. On admission, he had some mild right-sided hearing loss but was otherwise neurologically intact. Upon analysis of the formal angiogram, a feeding arterial pedicle from the V 4 segment of the VA was identified. A HyperForm balloon (Covidien) was used to safely infuse Onyx-34 at the fistulous point while reducing the risk of unintended embolization of normal posterior fossa vasculature. The patient developed no new clinical deficits after embolization ( –F), and postprocedural digital subtraction angiography (DSA) as well as the last follow-up DS angiogram at 2.8 years demonstrated no recurrent filling of the fistula ( and H).
case 2 A 12-year-old boy was referred to our neurovascular service after workup for sudden, 2-day history of persistent headaches and left-eye proptosis, which revealed a large left occipital vascular lesion. As previously described by our group, 15 vascular imaging of the lesion revealed a 4 × 3.7-cm non-Galenic AVF supplied by the left posterior cerebral artery (PCA; and B). Venous drainage distal to the aneurysmal sac occurred through a large dilated vein of Galen and straight sinus with subsequent congestion of the vein of Labbé. The treatment plan consisted of angiography with possible embolization followed by microsurgical treatment if necessary. The patient underwent cerebral angiography under general anesthesia for delineation of the angioarchitecture and treatment of his lesion. Angiography revealed a highflow AVF fed by the left PCA and drained by the vein of Galen ( and D). The fistulous point was approached via a transarterial route and embolized with a combination of Onyx-18 and Onyx-34 using balloon assistance ( –G). During the procedure we attempted unsuccessfully to use adenosine to induce temporary cardiac arrest during the injection of the embolysate. The posttreatment angiograms revealed a near-complete embolization of the fistula with trace flow through the fistulous point . At this point it was believed that the residual fistula would likely thrombose spontaneously. The patient was kept intubated and returned to the intensive care unit with strict blood pressure control. Postprocedurally, the patient remained neurologically grossly intact with minimal visual complaints. Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the embolization of the fistula with minimal adjacent restricted diffusion in the left occipital lobe. On postoperative Day 2 the patient was returned to the angiography suite to confirm complete obliteration of the fistula. Repeat cerebral angiography 2 days after embolization revealed a primarily thrombosed venous pouch, but continued supply to the AVF via distal PCA branches was evident ( and B). Attempts to embolize the residual feeders via both transarterial and transvenous routes were unsuccessful. Given the continued flow into the fistula we elected to pursue microsurgical obliteration of the residual fistula. The following day the patient was taken to the operative theater for microsurgical disconnection of the residual fistula. Intraoperatively, the large varix was dissected, identifying the large PCA feeder that was embolized with Onyx. The fistulous point was carefully exposed and a permanent aneurysm clip was placed across the PCA feeder distal to the embolysate. Several small branches were coagulated and cut. Ensuring that the fistulous connection was completely obliterated required the distal venous outflow to be temporarily occluded and the varix to be opened. We removed Onyx and the thrombus from within the varix and did not observe flow into the varix, thereby confirming complete obliteration of the fistula. The patient was taken to the angiography suite postoperatively to document complete occlusion of the fistula. Postoperative angiography revealed complete disconnection of the fistula without any residual inflow or early draining vein ( and D). The patient was neurologically intact, with continued mild visual complaints. He was discharged to a neurological rehabilitation facility on postoperative Day 3 after microsurgical treatment of the fistula. Despite significant improvement in symptoms, the patient returned 3 months after treatment with new-onset headaches. Magnetic resonance imaging evaluation revealed thrombosis of the lesion ( and B) with improvement of T2 signal abnormality within the occipital lobe. Given the patient's symptoms and the sudden onset nature of his complaint, we elected to perform a diagnostic angiogram to further evaluate the treated fistula. Formal angiography revealed a small early draining nidus fed by a small distal branch of the left PCA that was believed to be inappropriate for endovascular treatment (explain this finding: 1) the original embolization procedure may have unmasked a concomitantly present nidal AVM, or 2) altered cerebral hemodynamics with incomplete obliteration of a giant AVF may have resulted in the congestion of cortical vessels over the course of 3 months.
Given the size and location of the nidus, we believed that this lesion was also a high risk for microsurgical treatment with a high risk of neurological compromise from the approach. After a multidisciplinary discussion, we elected to treat the residual lesion with stereotactic radiosurgery.There was evidence of significant mass effect from ectatic vessels on axial T2-weighted FLAIR MRI (c). This mass effect was unsuccessfully treated with coil embolization at an outside facility and the patient was then transferred to our institution. He underwent a single-stage, balloon-assisted Onyx-34 embolization of this fistula with complete obliteration of the fistula on postoperative right VA injection on AP (d) and lateral (e) DSA. Lateral plain radiographs (F) demonstrated the Onyx cast within the feeding pedicle as well as the coil within the fistulous bulb. The last follow-up evaluation at 2.8 years demonstrated no residual fistula on right VA injection on AP (g) and lateral (h) DSA.Given the small size of this lesion and the young age of the patient, we decided that erring on the lower end of an effective dose range of 15–26 Gy would be efficacious without exposing a child to unnecessary radiation. 16,21 The patient was treated with Gamma Knife surgery (GKS; Elekta AB) and received 17 Gy at the 50% isodose line . Eighteen months after radiosurgery the patient is at his baseline neurological level without symptoms concerning for fistula recurrence. He awaits his postradiosurgical treatment follow-up evaluation that is scheduled for 3 years from the time of stereotactic radiosurgery. A 14-year-old girl with a history of Bannayan-RileyRuvalcaba syndrome and a history of chronic debilitating headaches was treated at an outside facility with Chiari decompression and lumboperitoneal shunt placement. She presented to our facility for a venogram and arteriogram for suspected pseudotumor cerebri and was found to have a complex superior sagittal sinus dural AVF with multiple parasitized pial branches of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) and cavernous internal carotid artery (ICA), as well as the middle meningeal artery (MMA), superficial temporal artery (STA), and occipital artery (OA) all contributing to the fistula ( and B). As previously described by our group, 13 the patient underwent a 2-stage procedure, first with transvenous balloon-assisted Onyx embolization via 2 distinct MMA branches accessed via the venous pouch. Second, a transarterial route via the MMA branches with Onyx embolization bolstered by coil embolization further reduced flow via the fistula ( and D). Immediate postoperative DSA demonstrated a residual fistula fed primarily from the MMA and STA . Giventhat the patient was doing well clinically, we decided to closely monitor this residual fistula with serial imaging. Three-month follow-up and the last follow-up DS angiogram demonstrated complete angiographic obliteration of the fistula .
