The patient is a 65-year-old right-handed gentleman initially seen for evaluation through the Neurology Department at the Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center (MEDVAMC) and who was later referred for neuropsychological testing. Approximately 10 months prior to his neuropsychological evaluation, the patient sustained an ischemic stroke of the right PCA and was treated at an outside hospital before beginning rehabilitation though thecarotid artery at the bifurcation. A basic metabolic panel evaluation was normal with the exception of mildly elevated glucose levels. During the neuropsychological evaluation, the patient's primary complaint was persisting memory difficulty, confusion, and vision problems since his stroke. At this time, he displayed a general lack of awareness and concern regarding any changes in his ability to read and believed that his difficulties with reading were primarily a result of his problems with vision. During the interview and testing, his level of frustration observed did not appear consistent with his observed deficits, suggestive of a lack of awareness as to the severity of his difficulties. His wife reported that he had difficulty with writing since the stroke, at times writing upside down. Significant symptoms of anxiety and depression were denied. The patient reported no difficulties with sleep. The patient's wife reported that she had assumed responsibility for the management of household finances and his medications since the stroke due to his reported problems with memory. The patient reported that he had not driven independently since the stroke due to his vision problems. It was reported that the patient was independent in activities of self-care and grooming. During the neuropsychological evaluation, the patient was noted to have good speech comprehension, was conversant with the examiners, and was able to answer verbal questions in a reasonable manner. The patient reported that he had been experiencing vision problems, to which he attributed his difficulty with reading. He was oriented to person and place but reported the incorrect year (reported 2006, but the actual year was 2013) and date upon inquiry. Despite the error on reported year, he was able to accurately report on several recent news stories. During testing, he was generally pleasant and cooperative but at times became mildly frustrated during tasks in which reading ability was assessed. Upon formal testing, his ability to match pictures to spoken words/short phrases was intact (Multilingual Aphasia Examination Aural Comprehension), with him correctly identifying 17/18 stimuli. When tasked with matching written words to the same pictures (MAE Reading Comprehension), he was unable to read the written words and unable to accurately match to the words outside of randomly guessing. When asked to read the individual letters of the words from this task, such as " steeple, " he answered " c, ec, c. .. e, cee " before discontinuing the task. On a task of one-and two-step commands (MAE Token Test) he performed in the impaired range (25/44). He was accurate with one-step commands but had marked difficulty with two-step commands that included a conjunctive command such as touching all tokens of a certain color except…, or commands requiring him to use a token as an action upon another token. He displayed impaired performance on a task of sentence repetition (MAE Sentence Repetition, 7/14) in which sentences of increasing length are presented orally. When his cognition was further assessed, the patient was able to write words and short phrases (e.g., " the brown dog " ) but was unable to read these at a later time. He was also able to copy short words and phrases presented to him visually but was noted to do so in a slow and labored manner. He also demonstrated difficulty in identifying block letters presented to him. For example, when asked to identify an " L, " he picked out the letter " T. " When asked to orally spell out words such as " rice " and " steel, " he did so without difficulty. When asked to spell words with block letters, he showed significant impairment. For example, when asked to spell " clear " he spelled it " clesa " and placed the letter " A " upside down. The patient's ability to name line-drawn pictures of common objects (Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status Picture Naming) was within normal limits, with him accurately identifying 9/10 pictures. His performance on a line bisection task displayed evidence of left visual neglect, consistent with the left hemispatial neglect. On a visual-spatial task requiring him to identify line drawings of objects that have been cut into two or more parts (Hooper Visual Organization Test), he performed in the severely impaired range (9.5/30). It should be noted that he was able to identify some easier items (e.g., airplane, hammer), and for some complex items, though not able to identify the picture, he was able to identify the semantic superordinate (e.g., animal for cat).He was also noted to have drawn the copy to the extreme left of the sheet of paper that he was given for the copy trial. His clock drawing was generally intact, with only a number placement error noted (i.e., placing the number 1 at the top instead of 12, but the numbers were in correct order around the clock face) and the correct time designated by the minute and hour hands. His overall cognition (RBANS Total Scale) was severely impaired. All indexes within the RBANS (Immediate Memory, Visuospatial/Constructional, Attention, and Delayed Memory) were in the severely impaired range, with the exception of RBANS Language falling in the low-average range. Of note, his memory functioning was amnestic in nature, with no help from repetition of material or recognition cueing. Also, although the Language Index was low average, this is not surprising in this context as the language measures included on the RBANS (confrontation naming and semantic fluency) are not sensitive to the types of impairments seen in the patient's presentation.
