The patient was diagnosed with nephrotic syndrome at the age of 3 years, after the occurrence of generalized edema, proteinuria and transient kidney function impairment during an episode of bilateral bacterial otitis. Three years later a renal biopsy performed because of steroiddependency, showed a mild diffuse mesangial proliferation with small areas of focal sclerosis in 14 % of the glomeruli. During childhood he had a steroid-dependent course, with relapses following common pediatric infections, and at the age of 6 years cyclosporin A was added to corticosteroids. No further episodes of nephrotic syndrome were reported, till the age of 13 years when the patient was admitted to the Pediatric Ward because of fever (up to 38.8 °C) and productive cough accompanied by nephrotic range proteinuria. Blood tests showed leucocytosis (15.7 WBC/ mm 3 ), high CRP (3.7 mg/dl), fibrinogen (558 mg/dl) and fibrin degradation products (9850 ng/ml). Large spectrum antibiotic therapy was started and the ongoing doses of prednisone and cyclosporine were increased. After few days his neurologic conditions worsened and he developed generalized seizures treated with phenobarbital. The patient was transferred to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit as ventilatory support was needed. A cerebral angio-MR showed thrombosis of the superior sagittal, left transverse and straight sinuses , with a concomitant inflammation of the left mastoid process. Local thrombolysis through a catether in the left jugular vein was attempted, without success. Since the general conditions of the patient were deteriorating rapidly, systemic thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) was administered intravenously at the dose of 0.3 mg/kg for 6 h. A subsequent cerebral angio-MR showed a complete recanalization of the involved sinuses . In the following days intravenous heparin was given in continuous infusion (target range of activated partial thromboplastin time ratio 1.5–2.5), that was switched to low molecular weight heparin (calcium nadroparin 100 U/kg bid) when the renal function normalized. P. aeruginosa was isolated from the left ear swab and with a targeted antibiotic therapy his general conditions improved steadily until discharge. After few weeks phenobarbital was discontinued and the patient switched from calcium nadroparin to oral anticoagulant therapy with warfarin(target range of International Normal Ratio of the prothrombin time 2.0–3.0) for the following 6 months. The change of anticoagulant therapy from heparin to warfarin had not been done earlier because of the influence of phenobarbital on the INR. Before starting warfarin the patients was tested for thrombophilia including plasma levels of antithrombin, protein C, protein S, the search of factor V Leiden and prothrombin G20210A mutations, homocysteine lupus anticoagulant and antiphospholipid antibodies (anticardiolipin and anti-β2 glycoprotein I antibodies IgG and IgM). A type II (dysfunctional) protein S deficiency was diagnosed, with normal protein S antigen and low functional levels. The inheritance of the deficiency was confirmed in first-and second degree relatives . Since the episode of thrombosis the patient, who is now 17 year old, had 5 further episodes of upper respiratory tract infections, two of whom complicated by relapse of proteinuria despite immunosuppressive maintenance treatment. Antithrombotic prophylaxis with low-molecular-weight heparin (100 UI/kg od) was given in both occasions.
