A 33-year old man was referred to our hospital with vertigo and nausea. He had throbbing headache centering right occipital area since one month before, but analgesic agents were efficacious. Suddenly rotational vertigo and nausea occurred at night, when he watched television in a recumbent position. He got a rest for six hours, but vertigo and nausea were not improved. Then he was taken to our hospital. His consciousness was clear, body temperature was 36.8°C, blood pressure was 138! 94 mmHg, and heart rate was 68! min. In the physical examination, we found no abnormality in his chest and abdomen. In the neurological examination, we observed his right Horner syndrome, gaze induced nystagmus, right curtain sign, positive Barré's sign of right upper extremCTA) showed focal stenosis at right vertebral artery (showed that stenosis (at the white arrows) and distal dilatation in the right posterior medullary segment of vertebral artery. After 87 days, the stenosis seems to be gradually extended . We started anticoagulant therapy with continuous dosing of heparin sodium (10,000 U! day) and neuroprotective therapy with edaravone (60 mg! day). An MRI examination 31 hours after onset faintly showed a high-intensity area in the right lateral medulla oblongata on diffusion-weighted images  or fluid attenuation inversion recovery images . However, the high-intensity area was not seen on follow-up scans. Basi-parallel anatomical scanning (BPAS) 31 hours after onset showed dilatation of the right posterior medullary segment of vertebral artery, and BPAS after 87 days and 527 days also showed dilatation of the artery (posterior medullary segment of vertebral artery .
The anticoagulant agent to prevent recurrence was then changed from heparin sodium to warfarin. The symptoms, including vertigo, dysarthria, and ataxia, improved. For the treatment of dysphagia, 26 days after onset the patient was transferred to a rehabilitation hospital, where he regained the ability to swallow. He returned to work, although sensory disturbance remained.
