A 56-year-old man was exposed to carbon monoxide from a heater at home. He was found by his relatives and taken to the emergency department of our hospital. His wife, also poisoned by carbon monoxide, was found dead. On examination, the patient was found to be unconscious, with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 5. He also had respiratory insufficiency and his body emitted an odour of smoke. Initial treatment included endotracheal intubation, mechanical ventilation, and administration of diuretics and antiplatelet drugs. Laboratory test results showed elevated white blood cell count and levels of troponin I, creatine kinase-MB fraction and carboxyhaemoglobin . Electrocardiography showed normal sinus rhythm. The patient was treated in the intensive care unit. Carboxyhaemoglobin level improved from Day 1 to Day 2 of hospital stay, while the levels of troponin I and creatine kinaseMB fraction improved from Day 1 to Day 5 . Cardiology consultation on Day 2 showed echocardiographic changes of left ventricular dysfunction and insufficiency, and the high troponin I level was thus attributed to hypoxia. The patient was extubated on Day 4 and had no complaints or other neurologic abnormalities except for the loss of vision (i.e. right temporal hemianopsia). MR imaging of the brain on Day 4 showed diffusion restriction in the left occipital lobe .ABSTRACT Carbon monoxide intoxication is the most prevalent cause of death from carbon monoxide poisoning. We herein report the case of a 56-year-old man who was found unconscious and smelled of smoke after exposure to carbon monoxide from a heater. He scored 5 on the Glasgow Coma Scale, and had respiratory insufficiency and elevated troponin I, creatine kinase-MB fraction and carboxyhaemoglobin levels. He was treated by mechanical ventilation. After regaining consciousness, brain magnetic resonance imaging showed diffusion restriction in the left occipital lobe; there was a loss of vision (right temporal hemianopsia), which improved by the follow-up session. Carbon monoxide intoxication may cause neurologic and cardiac sequelae, and the initial treatment includes oxygen therapy. Acute carbon monoxide poisoning can cause serious injury to the brain, heart and other organs; the most severe damages that could be inflicted to the brain include cerebral ischaemia and hypoxia, oedema, and neural cell degeneration and necrosis. Keywords: heart, hemianopsia, oxygen, poisoning, stroke
