History and Presentation A previously healthy 3-year-old girl was brought to our institution after falling off the monkey bars equipment at a playground and striking the back of her head. The patient vomited twice on the scene, and she was lethargic with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 10 on presentation, with reactive pupils and symmetrical movements to stimulation. A CT scan obtained without contrast revealed a leftsided posterior fossa EDH overlying the transverse sinus. There was effacement of the fourth ventricle and dilation of the temporal horns . Irregular bone loss around the posterior margin of the foramen magnum and occipital bone, with an associated soft-tissue mass, was also noted . The family was unaware of this lesion prior to this event. The CT scan was reviewed by a neuroradiologist and thought to represent an ABC, and because of the patient's neurological compromise, an emergency MRI study was not obtained. Because of the often bloody nature of these lesions, the operating room staff was notified of blood typing and screening results before the patient was taken to the operating room, and unmatched O-negative packed red blood cells were made available in case of urgent need. Operation The patient underwent an emergency posterior fossa craniectomy with gross-total resection (GTR) of the bony lesion and evacuation of the EDH. Intraoperatively, the mass had eroded the margins of the foramen magnum and was removed en bloc, although there was brisk bleedingAneurysmal bone cysts (ABCs) are benign, expansile, osteolytic lesions that represent 1%–2% of primary bone tumors. Cranial ABCs are even more rare and represent 3%–6% of these unique lesions. The authors describe the case of a 3-year-old girl who presented with an acute posterior fossa epidural hematoma after minor trauma. Imaging workup revealed a previously undiagnosed suboccipital ABC that appeared to have ruptured as a result of her trauma, leading to a life-threatening hemorrhage. To the authors' knowledge, a ruptured ABC has never before been presented in the pediatric literature. In this case report, the authors review the imaging findings, natural history, clinical course, and treatment of these rare lesions. necessitating blood transfusion. Once the EDH was evacuated, we closely inspected the transverse sinus for tears; no injury to the sinus was found as an alternative source for the EDH. All bleeding from the edges of the craniotomy was stopped with bone wax to help prevent air embolism. An intraoperative ultrasound confirmed that there was no subdural or intraparenchymal hemorrhage, nor was there obvious thrombosis within the venous sinus. Postoperative Course Postoperatively, the patient was extubated and taken to the pediatric ICU in stable condition. An MRI study of the brain and cervical spine was performed on postoperative Day 1, which was consistent with a GTR of the mass and decreased effacement of the fourth ventricle . The patient was discharged home on postoperative Day 2 neurologically intact. On pathological examination, the lesion showed large cystic spaces filled with blood and separated by fibrous septa, alternating with more solid areas. There were also clusters of multinucleated giant cells with loose, spindly stroma, but no malignant osteoid and no atypia . The final pathological diagnosis was a ruptured ABC. The patient has been seen at 1-and 6-month follow-up and remains neurologically intact. Follow-up CT scans and MRI studies confirm GTR and no recurrence at 6 months.
