A previously well 1-year-old boy with normal developmental milestones was admitted to the hospital for first onset of nonfebrile seizures that self-resolved. The patient had neither other constitutional symptoms nor significant family history that may have possibly contributed to his seizure. An electroencephalogram (EEG) did not show seizure foci. Furthermore, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain J. J. Y. Yeo Faculty of Medicine, University of New South Wales, New South Wales, Australia S. Y. Y. Low (*) Department of Neurosurgery, National Neuroscience Institute (Singapore), 11, Jalan Tan Tock Seng, Singapore 308433, Singapore e-mail: sharon_yy_low@nni.com.sg demonstrated no structural abnormalities. He was managed conservatively with anti-epileptics and discharged home stable. During the 3 years of outpatient follow-up, the patient was successfully weaned off his anti-epileptic medications. However, at 7 years of age, he was admitted again for seizures. A repeated MRI brain scan showed a left cerebellar arteriovenous malformation (AVM). No focus of restricted diffusion was present to suggest an acute infarct, nor any susceptibility artifact that would suggest previous hemorrhage. This investigation was followed up with a four-vessel cerebral angiogram that confirmed the MRI brain findings. Overall, the radiological results was suggestive of a Spetzler-Martin grade III AVM . For this case, the patient's parents opted for him to undergo stereotactic radiosurgery (Novalis) for his lesion.
A previously well 7-year-old female presented with a single episode of seizures associated with a fever that self-resolved. Similarly, this patient had no other constitutional symptoms or family history that may have possibly contributed to her presentation. As part of the work-up investigations, a MRI brain scan was performed which showed no obvious intracranial abnormality. Her remaining tests were correspondingly unremarkable. The patient remained asymptomatic until the age of 16, during which she complained of intermittent headaches. A repeated MRI brain scan reported a small parenchymal AVM in the left anterior temporal lobe. There was no associated intra-parenchymal hemorrhage, atrophy, or gliosis detected. Based on these findings, the diagnosis was that of a Spetzler-Martin grade II AVM . In this case, the patient's parents decided to proceed with surgical excision of her cerebral AVM.
