History and Presentation A 63-year-old Caucasian man who was obese and hypertensive, with high alcohol and smoking consumption, and with known rheumatic aortic and mitral valve disease underwent transvenous catheter thermoablation for atrial fibrillation in 2011 at a different, foreign institution. The technical information about this procedure is complete as a file but it was not detailed. Despite our request, the institution where the procedure was performed declined to provide us with further details. One year later, the patient was admitted to the same institution with severe dyspnea and tachycardia. Findings from complete cardiological workup, including blood analysis and transesophageal and transthoracic echocardiography, were unremarkable. However, a chest radiograph revealed a right parasternal linear structure that was interpreted as a ventriculoperitoneal shunt by the reporting radiologist, who was unaware of the patient's medical history . Since the patient was not compliant with anticoagulant treatment, his Coumadin therapy was replaced with aspirin therapy. The patient remained well until 3 days prior to further admission when he noticed itching in the right frontal area of his scalp. On palpating his scalp, he discovered a metallic body projecting out of it and he proceeded to extract 20 cm of wire from his head ( and B). The following day, the patient presented to our emergency department with a progressive left hemiplegia and a deteriorating level of consciousness.The authors report a complication of catheter ablation that, to their knowledge, has never been previously reported. A 63-year-old man had undergone successful transvenous catheter thermoablation for atrial fibrillation. The patient remained well until 3 days prior to further admission when he noticed itching in the right frontal area of his scalp. On palpating his scalp, he discovered a metallic body projecting out of it and he proceeded to extract 20 cm of wire from his head. The following day a progressive left hemiplegia developed, and the patient experienced a deteriorating level of consciousness. A CT scan of the brain showed a right frontotemporal intraparenchymal hemorrhage and revealed a metallic structure in the middle of the hematoma. The hematoma was evacuated and a decompressive craniotomy was performed. The guidewire was identified, but it was only possible to extract part of it. It was covered by fibrous tissue, secondary to inflammatory reaction. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of guidewire-induced brain hemorrhage. The guidewire apparently had not been removed and had spontaneously migrated from the heart to the brain and beyond to the scalp where it then exited the patient's head. The patient had been well before he attempted to pull out the wire.Imaging Findings CT scanning of the brain showed a right frontotemporal intraparenchymal hemorrhage ( and D), and the patient was referred to our department for neurosurgical evaluation. Further examination of the CT scan revealed a metallic structure that did not look like a ventricular catheter in the middle of the intraparenchymal right frontotemporal hematoma. A CT angiogram of the chest was then obtained  and showed a metallic wire in the superior and inferior venae cavae. The scout CT scan of the head  showed that the wire ran from the scalp and calvaria through the hematoma, down to the internal jugular vein, superior vena cava, and right atrium, and ending in the inferior vena cava. At the level of the jugular bulb , the metallic structure went through the foramen lacerum of the carotid canal without any evidence of dehiscence on CT scanning  or arterial injury confirmed on digital subtraction (DS) angiography . We speculated that the guidewire had worked itself into the brain parenchyma because of the increase in intraabdominal pressure rather than venous flux or carotid pulse, had perforated both the basal dura mater and the venous wall, and ultimately penetrated the skull and scalp . Presumably, the guidewire had been used during the prior transvenous thermoablation procedure and had not been withdrawn and ultimately led to intracranial migration and spontaneous exteriorization. The patient did not provide detail to suggest the opposite course of the wire from the head. Operation As the patient's clinical and neurological status deteriorated, the hematoma was evacuated and a decompressive craniotomy was performed. The guidewire was identified, but it was only possible to extract part of it. It was stiff and covered by fibrous tissue, secondary to inflammatory reaction. The wire was cut and the end was wrapped with hemostatic gauze (Video 1).After surgery, the patient's neurological condition improved, but he died on the 6th postoperative day of respiratory failure due to pneumonia. A thorough review of the medical literature failed to reveal any similar case report.
