A 70-year-old male, who was pathologically diagnosed as having hepatic CE with surgery 22 years ago, and was also diagnosed with a pulmonary hydatid cyst and received surgery 13 years ago. When admitted, the patient complained of an intermittent cough with increasing severity Z. Yuan Á M. Maihesuti (&) Á L. Wenya (&) Á Z. Cheng Á N. Biyemu Á W. Haitao Imaging Center, First Affiliated Hospital, Xinjiang Medical University, 137 Liyushan Road, U ¨ rümqi 830054, Xinjiang, China e-mail: 69175005@99.com L. Wenya e-mail: wenyal2002@163.com Z. Yuan e-mail: xjzy7608@sina.com and hemoptysis for 7 years. He denied fevers, chills, or weight loss. He had been living in the city of Yining located in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China, and had no history of travelling to other places. He denied handling livestock or other animals except for contacting dogs during childhood. He accepted cholecystectomy after admission. Serologic testing proved him to be positive for anti-EgCF, anti-EgP, anti-Em2, and anti-EgB antibodies for cystic hydatidosis. No other abnormal laboratory findings were observed. Chest radiographs showed multiple nodules in the right lung field, fan-shaped dense shadow in the left lower lobe overlapped with the heart, apex upturned change, and enlargement of the right hilar . Non-contrast CT (Light-speed Volume CT, GE Medical Systems, USA) revealed the most of multiple cystic masses with low-density (HU values : 8–35), and the larger two lesions, with hypo-attenuating nature, located in the upper lobe (4.7 9 4.6 cm) and right hilar (4.3 9 6.3 cm), which were un-homogeneous and multiple small daughter cysts within the main cyst. A freely floating endocyst (the ''water lily sign'') was also revealed within a cyst in the right upper lobe of the lung . We performed dual-source pulmonary CT with contrast injection (iopromide, Ultravist300 Ò Schering, Berlin, Germany) to demonstrate the right pulmonary artery and its branches. We saw the left lung lower lobe segmental pulmonary artery as a low-density filling defect in these vessels that resulted in complete occlusion of the lumen . MRI (Signa Excite HD 1.5T; GE Healthcare, Milwaukee, WI) was attempted, T2weighted and water images revealed the cystic nature of the lesions with bright signal intensity and also showed multiple daughter cysts . Contrast-enhanced CT and MRI of lung revealed ''ring enhancement sign'' and wall opacification in some lesion.Hydatid cyst caused pulmonary embolism 127
