A 72-year-old women has been admitted to hospital, complaining about abdominal pain and bloody stools, that sometimes were diarrheal. These symptoms have started approximately seven days earlier and deteriorated gradually. Patient lost roughly five kilograms of weight during last month. Two weeks before, she has been discharged from Department of Infectious Diseases, where she was hospitalized due to acute infectious diarrhea caused by Salmonella. Her co-morbidities include rheumatoid arthritis, left adrenal adenoma, depression and osteoporosis. She undergone four surgeries (hysterectomy, subtotal thyroidectomy, left knee replacement procedure and left pleural tumor excision) and radiotherapy of the pelvis in the past. Hysterectomy and pelvic radiotherapy have been performed twenty years earlier, in the treatment of cervical cancer. Thyroidectomy and pleural surgery have been accomplished because of nodular goiter and benign fibrous tumor, respectively. During physical examination, patient presented flatulence and minor tenderness above entire abdominal surface. Rebound tenderness or abdominal guarding was absent. Digital rectal examination revealed an increased anal sphincter tone and ulceration with raised margins on the front side of the rectum. Basic laboratory blood test showed several abnormalities: anemia (RBC — 2 670 000/µL, Hemoglobin — 7.5 g/dL, Hematocrit — 22.9%), increased level of inflammatory markers (WBC — 19 500/µL, CRP — 173.1 mg/L), hypokalemia ( — 3.1 mmol/L) and slightly elevated serum concentration of amylase, lipase, urea and glucose. Patient has not presented with symptoms indicative of acute abdomen, so she was admitted to Department of Internal Diseases for further diagnostic. Samples of the feces have been examined microbiologically once again. Stool culture revealed Salmonella. Colonoscopy has also been performed and demonstrated two alarming changes: cylindrical infiltration with ulcer  and swollen narrowing of the rectal wall , roughly five and seven centimeters from the anal verge, respectively. Examination of the other parts of the colon was impossible. Patient's condition deteriorated. Because of the narrowing, septic signs and severe abdominal pain, decision about urgent surgery was made. Intraoperatively, necrotic changed rectum has been observed . Moreover, necrosis spread to the terminal segment of the sigmoid colon and left iliopsoas muscle, forming an 49 . Swollen narrowing, closing the rectal lumen significantly.
