A 63-year-old female patient was admitted to our institute for CT angiography. On admission she complained on frequent chest pain and dysphagia, eight years ago she underwent abdominal aorta aneurysm resection and aortoiliac bypass reconstruction. Risk factors included diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking and family history. Internal carotid arteries were narrowed 20%, right renal artery was occluded. Computed tomography (CT) angiography showed large descending aorta aneurysm, 7.6 cm in diameter as well as left subclavian artery (LSA) origin aneurysm 2.2 cm in diameter (Figures 1 and 2). Likewise, thrombotic cavities on both anterior and posterior aortic wall  were noted, as well as aneurismal sac compression on the esophagus and trachea. Likewise, juxtarenal aneurysm was noted as well, 4.3 cm in diameter. TEVAR alone was not an option for technical reasons because of small dimension of previous " Y " graft (12×6 mm), so we indicated a hybrid procedure. Because of short proximal landing zone and LSA origin aneurysm in the first stage we did LSA transposition and after three days hybrid procedure. The procedure was done in combined general/epidural anesthesia. First we opened the abdominal cavity and after " Y " graft exposure we clamped the aorta and iliac arteries. Following the clamping we created end-to-side anastomosis between the body of " Y " graft and Dacron tubular graft 10 mm . Through this conduit we placed thoracic endograft in the descending aorta and afterwards we did a complete " Y " graft replacement in order to prevent infection. In the postoperative course left brachial artery exploration was done for suspected thrombosis that was not verified intraoperatively. Low-molecular-weight heparin was administered for the first two postoper-www.srp-arh.rs ative days and later on aspirin and clopidogrel. The patient was discharged on the seventh postoperative day. After six months CT angiography showed satisfactory results, with no endoleak and regular graft patency .
