Case 1 A 12-year-old girl presented with a 6-day history of subfebrile temperature, generalized lymphadenitis, fatigue and inappetence. Exanthema of the extremities and trunk, raspberry tongue, bulbar injection, facial edema, palmar erythema, swelling of the small-finger joints, discrete jaundice and epigastric tenderness were observed. The general practitioner (GP) had treated her (benzathin-phenoxymethyl penicillin, 750 mg TID) for suspected scarlet fever. Laboratory data (and normal range in parenthesis) were:, ASAT 17U/l (0–21U/l), ALAT 42U/l (0–22U/l), GGT 50U/l (0– 19U/l), AP 557U/l (0–390U/l), HDL cholesterol 5 mg/dl (≥37 mg/dl), bilirubinuria, and ketonuria. Hepatitis screening revealed borderline complement binding reaction for Enterovirus and Coxsackievirus types other than A9. The chest x-ray showed prominent hila and the ECG a normofrequent sinus rhythm. Echocardiography indicated normal left ventricular function. CAs had normal dimension, no signs of aneurysm. Liver ultrasonography revealed distinct periportal fields. Clinical symptoms suggested KD with uncommon cholestasis. On the day of admission, treatment was started with intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) (Octagam®, 1.6 g/kg/d), aspirin (ASA, 500 mg TID), sucralfate (1 g TID), and ursodeoxycholic acid (100 mg TID). Desquamation of the fingertips and pronounced jaundice developed. The blunt liver margin was palpated 0.5–1 cm underneath the right costal edge and hepatic consistency was found normal. Moderately acholic stools and hyperchromic urines were noted. Ultrasonography and MRI showed hepatomegaly (13x16x9.6 cm) and regular width of intra-and extrahepatic bile ducts. After 10 days, the patient improved and was discharged with ASA treatment. Immunologic screening revealed positive anti-Ro-antibodies and a positive anti-U 1-snRNP subset (against extractable * Correspondence: ingeborg.keeling@medunigraz.at Department Cardiac Surgery, Medical University of Graz, Auenbruggerplatz 29, 8036 Graz, Austria nuclear antigen-ribonucleoprotein). Four months after discharge, transaminases and platelet counts normalized while total cholesterol (249 mg/dl, normal <200 mg/dl) and eosinophils (11.1 %, normal 0–5.0 %) remained elevated. Since his fourth month of life, a 9-year-old boy experienced upper respiratory infections and recurrent otitis. At the age of 4 years he was admitted 5 days after headaches, conjunctival injection, fever, fatigue, enanthema of the throat and tonsils, raspberry tongue and enlargement of submandibular lymph nodes evolved.The child developed intolerance to IVIG (Endobulin®, 5 g), with severe abdominal pains. The liver margin was palpable 0.5 cm below the right costal edge, hepatic consistency was normal. Stool and urine were unremarkable. Only once during the hospital stay ASAT 26U/l (0–21U/l) and ALAT 23U/l (0–22U/l) were slightly elevated. CT showed hepatomegaly, a prominent, homogenous pancreas, and reflections, possibly small sedimentations, in the choledochus duct. The examination neither confirmed nor dismissed an autoimmune disease. Reduced tissue necrosis factor (TNF)–receptor levels (0.81 ng/ml; 50 % of the minimum norm) suggested autosomal-dominant TNF-receptor associated periodic fever syndrome (TRAPS), but exon 2–5 mutations of the TNFR1A1 gene were not found in PCR. At the age of 9 years the patient was admitted for acute right-sided ablepsia. The ophthalmologist diagnosed ischemic optic nerve neuropathy. High-dose steroids for 13 days incompletely restored the child's vision. The examination for an autoimmunologic disease was negative.
