A 10-year-old boy was admitted with complaints of generalized body swelling for 15 days and hematuria for 10 days. In addition, the child had a history of nonpruritic generalized skin rash, right hip pain (subsided with analgesics), fever (high-grade, intermittent), and vomiting at the onset. There was no preceding history of pharyngitis, sinusitis, pneumonia, or skin infection. On day 3 of admission, he developed oliguria followed by anuria. The patient was normotensive. His serum creatinine rose to 7 mg/dl; thus, hemodialysis was initiated. Urine microscopy showed active sediment with full-field dysmorphic red blood cells. Serum C3 was 85 mg/dl (normal 70–240) and antinuclear antibody, ANCA, and viral markers (serologies for HIVand hepatitis B and C) were negative.
The renal biopsy showed a total of 22 glomeruli, 10 of which showed segmental necrotizing lesions with overlying cellular crescents, fibrin in Bowman's space, and Bowman's capsule rupture ( , A and B). The glomerular capillary lumina were suffused by neutrophils; however, no mesangial infiltration was noted. There was no endocapillary/mesangial proliferation, capillary wall thickening, or splitting in any of the glomeruli. The tubulointerstitium displayed mild interstitial edema and focal acute tubular injury, along with numerous red blood cell casts. No vasculitis of arteries or arterioles or granulomatous inflammation was noted. There was no chronicity. In view of the concomitant skin rash, the differential diagnoses considered were ANCA-negative pauci-immune crescentic GN and Henoch–Schönlein nephritis (HSN). IF revealed focal chunky capillary wall and mesangial deposition of C3 (1+, 0–3+ scale; ) and fibrin (2+, 0–3+ scale) and was negative for all Igs. The IF profile excluded HSN and anti–glomerular basement membrane (GBM) disease. The focal C3 deposition was initially considered nonspecific; thus, on the Published online ahead of print. Publication date available at www.jasn.org. Correspondence: Dr. Geetika Singh, Department of Pathology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Teaching Block, First Floor, New Delhi, Delhi,basis of LM and IF findings, a diagnosis of ANCA-negative pauci-immune crescentic GN was suggested. The child was given six pulses of methylprednisolone and 10 days of plasma exchange. Pulse cyclophosphamide was started at 500 mg/m 2 per dose after the completion of six methyl prednisolone pulses and was continued at the same dose at 3-weekly intervals for a total of five doses. The urine output improved and the patient was discharged with a serum creatinine of 2 mg/dl; he was taking oral prednisolone (2 mg/kg per day), which was tapered over 2 weeks, followed by maintenance with oral mycophenolate mofetil (750 mg/d). A year later, the child was again admitted with similar complaints of fever and rash, although no focus of infection could be identified. Investigations revealed a rapid rise in serum creatinine to 4.4 mg/dl. The serum C3 level was again low normal (77.7 mg/dl) and antinuclear antibody, ANCA, and viral markers were negative. A repeat renal biopsy was performed with the clinical suspicion of a relapse. The biopsy showed six glomeruli, three of which showed segmental necrotizing lesions with cellular crescents similar to the previous biopsy ( , A and B) along with acute tubular injury. There was no increase in tubulointerstitial chronicity. The tissue sent for IF contained renal medullary tissue. IF performed after proteinase K digestion of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue showed coarse predominantly capillary wall granular deposition of C3 (3+, 0–3+ scale)  with no staining for Igs. The IF profile of " isolated C3 " staining prompted electron microscopy (EM), which to our surprise showed discontinuous intramembranous dense deposits along with numerous irregularly placed subepithelial and mesangial electron dense deposits, classic for DDD. Secondary podocyte damage with foot process effacement was also noted . Retrospectively, the biopsy from the first presentation was processed for EM and it too showed massive subepithelial and mesangial electron dense deposits along with intramembranous deposits . Thus, it was clear that both biopsies showed DDD with histologic appearance of a focal and segmental necrotizing crescentic GN, mimicking a small vessel vasculitis. The child was again started on pulse methyl prednisolone (six doses) and plasma exchanges (six alternate-day exchanges). He responded to treatment, remained dialysis free, and was discharged on prednisolone (60 mg orally, once daily) and mycophenolate (750 mg). He was also given two doses of rituximab (500 mg/dose) at weekly intervals. The child remains in remission 10 months later on the above regimen, with serum creatinine of 0.5 mg/dl, C3 of 80 mg/dl, and a spot urine protein/ creatinine ratio of 0.02. ELISA for anti– factor H antibody was negative.
