A 75-year-old man came to the hospital with complaintsthe wall from the cecum to the transverse colon ( , b). Colonoscopy revealed dark blue mucosa extending from the cecum to the transverse colon. Redness and erosion of mucosa had been disseminated throughout the cecum and the ascending colon . Wall thickening and narrowing of lumen of the colon were also observed. Severe concentric fibrotic lesion in the pericapillary region of the lamina propria was observed on histological inspection . Because we identified the fibrillization associated with reduction of ductal cell density in almost all specimens, we considered the degree of fibrillization to be severe ( , f). All of these characteristic findings were typical for a confirmed diagnosis of MP. Examination of past medical history indicated that the patient had no calcification when an abdominal CT scan was performed three years ago. Therefore, we concluded that the calcification had formed within the past three years. This patient was receiving Kampo medication at the time of this report; however, gardenia fruit was excluded from his prescription medications.A 49-year-old woman suffered from chronic itching of her palms and feet (palmoplantar pustulosis). Her symptoms were ameliorated by a combined administration of Unseiin, Kamisyoyosan, Keigairengyoto and Orengedokuto for 12.2 years. CT scans did not reveal characteristic calcification, but an increased CT value, mild dilatation and slight calcification were present in the ileocecal vein . Colonoscopy was performed to identify possible MP, which showed mild blue coloration of the cecum and the ascending colon ( , c). Transparency of blood vessels was decreased. The histological findings of mild fibrotic lesions in pericapillary region of the lamina propria were also noted . The fibrillization was not associated with a reduction of ductal cell density in the lamina propria. Histological evaluation of the degree of fibrillization was mild ( , e). The patient was diagnosed with MP based on these findings. Kampo treatment and follow up of MP continued at the time of this report. Kampo formulas containing gardenia fruit were omitted from treatment following the diagnosis.
A 64-year-old woman took herbal medicine to treat her various symptoms including flushed face, feeling of cold and menopausal symptoms. She had taken Kamisyoyosan for 11.4 years. Abdominal CT showed characteristic calcification of the cecum and the ascending colon. Colonoscopy was performed and mild blue coloration of the membrane on the cecum and the transverse colon were observed. Slight fibrotic depositions in the pericapillary region of the lamina propria were noted in the specimens collected at the hepatic flexure. Moderate and severe fibrotic lesions were also observed in the membrane of the cecum and the ascending colon. These findings led to a diagnosis of MP in this patient.
A 68-year-old man was treated with the decocted traditional medicine Unseiin. The treatment for cutaneous pruritus lasted 12.2 years. Colonoscopy showed typical bronze coloration of the mucosa extending from the cecum to the transverse colon. Histological inspection revealed severe concentric fibrotic lesions in pericapillary region of the lamina propria. Fibrillization associated with reduction of ductal cell density was identified in almost all specimens. The findings were characteristic of MP, and thus, sufficiently confirmed his diagnosis. This patient consented only to endoscopic screening, and A 53-year-old woman requested Kampo treatments for rhinitis. She received Kampo medication for 6.9 years and used preparations containing gardenia fruit such as Orengedokuto, Kamisyoyosan, Bofutsusyosan and Shin'iseihaito for 6.6 years. Abdominal CT scans revealed no calcification along the colonic wall and the mesenterium. Moreover, we did not see any unusual color in her colonic membrane. Finally, no histological change was identified in biopsy specimens. In addition, no detectable fibrillization was found on histological evaluations ( , d). Gardenia fruit was thereafter carefully prescribed to this patient.
