We describe an 18 year old male who presented with cutaneous atrophic papulosis but became critically ill from small bowel microperforations. We also describe his sister, who developed similar skin lesions compatible with a familial variant. PubMed was used for a literature search using the keywords malignant atrophic papulosis, Degos disease, endoscopy, laparoscopy and laparotomy. The search yielded 200 articles which were further analyzed for diagnostic procedures and findings. Also personal communications with other physicians caring for individuals with systemic MAP led to evaluation and comparison of gastrointestinal imaging modalities. Patient One: Patient One is an 18 year old male who presented with cutaneous disease, had rapidly proliferating skin lesions over a course of a year, and then survived small bowel microperforations from MAP . Two months prior to his presentation with acute abdomen, lower endoscopy showed patchy erythematous mucosa with central clearing at the sigmoid, rectosigmoid colon and splenic flexure . Upper endoscopy demonstrated mild acute gastritis. At laparotomy, innumerable typical lesions of 0.3-0.5 cm papules with central pearly hue and erythematous border were seen . The patient had a very rapid and dramatic response to therapy with eculizumab . Later on the patient required a second agent, treprostinil, for maintenance and suppression of other systemic manifestations. Five years have passed and he has been doing well on double therapy of eculizumab and treprostinil. Patient Two: Patient Two is the sister of Patient One. She slowly developed a small number of cutaneous lesions that were biopsied and were consistent with atrophic papulosis. She had minor gastrointestinal discomfort. For this reason and due to her brother's history a laparoscopy was performed with normal findings. Her abdominal discomfort spontaneously resolved. Given the lack of GI findings and the highly limited nature of the cutaneous presentation she is less likely to progress to systemic MAP.
