A 33-year-old previously healthy male Japanese soldier cut his gum in the region between his right maxillary molars and premolars while eating an oyster (nine days before admission). Three days later, he developed swelling and pain over the right mandible and sternocleidomastoid muscle with a slight fever and therefore consulted a dentist. He was subsequently diagnosed with right maxillary gingival swelling and prescribed cefteram pivoxil (100 mg, three times daily). Three days before admission (six days after sustaining the injury), he developed a cough, dyspnea, purulent sputum and 40 fever and thus visited a nearby hospital, where a chest X-ray revealed nodules and infiltrates in both lungs. He was initially diagnosed with pneumonia and transferred to JSDF Central Hospital. A physical examination showed that the patient was cm tall and weighed 76.3 kg, with a body temperature of 39.4. An examination of his vital signs demonstrated tachypnea (respiratory rate: 39/min), tachycardia (pulse rate: 115/min) and an oxygen saturation of 94% under oxygen supplementation via a 2-liter nasal cannula. In addition, he exhibited yellowing of the bulbar conjunctiva, right maxillary gingival swelling and bilateral coarse crackles. A laboratory examination disclosed leukocytosis (white blood cells: 20,740/mm 3 , with 90% neutrophils), thrombocytopenia (platelet count: 9,800/mm 3 ), a serum C-reactive protein level of 29.46 mg/dL, serum procalcitonin level of 11.43 ng/mL, jaundice (serum total bilirubin level: 7.96 mg/ dL) and renal failure (serum blood urea nitrogen level: 45 mg/dL, serum creatinine level: 2.39 mg/dL). An arterial blood gas analysis revealed hypoxia and respiratory alkalosis (pH: 7.46; partial CO2 pressure: 32.3 mmHg; partial O2 pressure: 74.0 mmHg; bicarbonate concentration: 22.8 mEq/L). In addition, a chest X-ray showed that the infiltrates in the lungs had increased in size, and a chest computed tomography (CT) scan detected multiple nodules  in both lungs. Moreover, abdominal CT and ultrasonography demonstrated hepatomegaly, splenomegaly and renal swelling. As we initially suspected pneumonia, we performed blood and sputum cultures and rapid serological tests and administered MEPM hydrate (0.3 g, four times daily) intravenously and azithromycin (AZM; 0.5 g, once daily) orally. However, on hospital day 4, a physical examination (which demonstrated a persistent fever, tachypnea and tachycardia) and laboratory studies (which revealed leukocytosis, inflammatory reactions and jaundice) did not show any improvements in the patient's condition. Although serological tests produced negative results for Streptococcus pneumoniae and Legionella pneumophila, blood cultures identified Fusobacterium necrophorum and Doppler ultrasonography depicted right IJV thrombosis. Therefore, we diagnosed the patient with LS. We decided that the MEPM had not been effective and subsequently replaced it with CLDM (600 mg, three times daily, i.v.) and SBT/ABPC (1.5 g, four times daily, from the fifth day of hospitalization, i.v.). However, the patient's symptoms did not noticeably improve. Hence, we added MTZ (1.0 g, once daily, from the sixth day of hospitalization, p.o.). On hospital day 9, a physical examination demonstrated that the patient's fever and tachypnea had gradually improved, and a laboratory examination showed that the leukocytosis, thrombocytopenia, jaundice and renal failure had been ameliorated. However, neck CT revealed a 10-cm-long thrombotic segment in the right IJV . A susceptibility test based on the E-test method indicated that the causative bacterium in this case was resistant to AZM and MEPM; however, its susceptibility to other antibiotics was not assessed. Therefore, the disk diffusion method was applied as an auxiliary diagnostic technique to obtain reference values. As a result, the zones of inhibition for CLDM and MEPM [" 16 mm (S), 14 to 15 mm (I) and ! 13 mm (R)] had diameters of 26, 21 and 16 mm, respectively. Furthermore, the broth microdilution method demonstrated that the causative bacterium in this case was susceptible to CLDM, although its susceptibility to MEPM and SBT/ ABPC was not assessed . On hospital day 25, Doppler ultrasonography indicated that the thrombosis in the right IJV had reduced in size, and a chest X-ray showed that the infiltrates and nodules in the lungs had improved. On hospital day 30, the antibiotic regimen was switched to CLDM (300 mg, three times daily, p.o.) and SBT/ABPC (375 mg, three times daily, p.o.). On hospital day 43, neck CT demonstrated that the IJV thrombosis had disappeared, chest CT showed that the lung nodules and infiltrates had reduced in size and abdominal CT indicated that the hepatomegaly, splenomegaly and renal swelling had each improved. The patient was discharged on hospital day 47. At three months after discharge, the thrombosis in the IVJ was found to have undergone organization, and no blood flow was detected in the IVJ; however, the thrombophlebitis had not relapsed. We conducted a full review of this case. Indeed, this patient's symptoms, particularly his general condition, worsCRP WBC ened rather than improved during the period of MEPM and AZM administration (up to hospital day 4). After replacing MEPM with SBT/ABPC, CLDM and MTZ, this symptoms gradually improved.
