An 82-year-old man underwent emergency Nellix endovascular repair for an 8.2 cm infra-renal aortic aneurysm (dimensions: neck diameter 2 cm, length 1.5 cm, angulation 30°, aortic blood flow lumen 5.5Á cm, maximum common iliac artery diameter 1.1 cm). A routine postoperative US Duplex at 4 days suggested a possible type 1a endoleak. CT angiography (CTA) on the same day showed a 10-mm focus of high density adjacent to the proximal end of the graft; which was initially thought to represent the apex of the high-density endobag polymer. However, a further CTA performed 6 days later showed an increase in the area of high density to 16 mm; which appeared more distinct from that observed on the earlier scan . A type 1a endoleak was diagnosed and angiography with a view to embolisation performed. Right common femoral artery access was obtained and angiogram and a Dyna CT examination (Siemens, Erhlangen, Germany) performed via a flush catheter. This confirmed contrast filing a small anterior space between the graft and sac wall in keeping with a type 1a endoleak . The endoleak channel was engaged using a 5F Sim 1 catheter (Cook Inc, Bloomington, IN, USA) and a), there is a small area of high density anterior to the proximal end of the graft (red arrowhead) which is difficult to distinguish from the high-density endobag (red arrow). On the subsequent CTA 6 days later, the area of high density (arrowhead) has increased in size and can clearly be distinguished from the endobag (arrow). This endoleak is best appreciated on sagittal image H. Note the endobag is of high density post-EVAS due to the polymer being mixed with contrast during deployment. The high density as well as the other normal postdeployment finding of air within the endobag diminish with time Dyna CTA images obtained via a flush catheter (arrow head) in the right Nellix limb. Axial (A) and sagittal (B) acquisitions show filling of a small cavity anterior to the proximal end of the Nellix graft in keeping with a type 1a endoleak. Note the Nellix limbs cross over at the bifurcation and therefore the right iliac limb graft is seen on the left in the abdominal aorta endoleak, but a marked ( stenosis of a 4.5-cm length of the proximal left Nellix endograft limb by Onyx, which had settled in the stent in a dependent fashion . There was good filling of the distal stent and native vessels. After careful deliberation, the patient was electively admitted for endovascular placement of a covered stent within the stenosed Nellix limb, with the aim of affixing the Onyx between the covered stent and the wall of the Nellix graft. Angiography following left common femoral artery access confirmed a significant stenosis of the left Nellix endograft limb. Given the longest available low profile covered stent was 59 mm, and in order to ensure adequate coverage of the entire length of the refluxed Onyx; overlapping covered 10 9 38 mm and 9 9 59 mm stents (Advanta V12, Atrium, USA) were placed flush to the end of the proximal left graft and dilated with a 10-and 12-mm balloon to ensure good apposition. Final angiography showed no residual filling defect within the Nellix endograft. The patient remained asymptomatic and was discharged home the following day. A CTA performed 10 weeks later showed improved patency of the left graft with no significant residual stenosis . The latest Duplex examination 8 months after this last intervention has shown patent Nellix grafts with no stenosis or endoleak.
