An 80-year-old white man was admitted to our emergency department (DEA) presenting with dyspnea; this symptom appeared 2 weeks before and worsened a few * Correspondence: menicmauri@gmail.com UO PS/MURG OC S. Maria delle Croci, Viale Randi 5, 48121 Ravenna, Italy JOURNAL OF MEDICAL CASE REPORTS days prior to hospital admission. He did not present other symptoms or signs; in particular he did not report thoracic pain or unilateral extremity swelling. He had no previous episodes of VTE, major trauma, immobilization or any other risk factors, such as obesity, cancer or family history suggestive of inherited thrombophilia. His main predisposing factor for VTE was advanced age. His medical history included arterial hypertension, previous left varicectomy and right saphenectomy. On examination, his systolic blood pressure was 130/80 mmHg and pulse rate was 100 beats per minute. His respiratory rate was 24 breaths/minute and arterial oxyhemoglobin saturation was 90 % at room air. His oral temperature was 36 °C and his mental status was preserved. Chest auscultation did not reveal pathological lung sounds. An electrocardiogram (ECG) showed a normal sinus rhythm with inversion of T waves in leads V3 to V6  not detected in previous recordings . Arterial blood gas analysis revealed a mild hypoxemia with respiratory alkalosis. His chest X-ray was normal. No supplemental oxygen was administered. Laboratory findings on admission revealed a high serum D-dimer level (6987 ng/L), elevated high-sensitivity cardiac troponin concentration (137 ng/l) and increased serum level of pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (pro-BNP; 6166 ng/L), while renal (creatinine 1.53 mg/dl and glomerular filtration rate 43 ml/minute/1.73m 2 ) and liver function were normal. The focused assessment with sonography for trauma (FAST) scan performed in DEA showed a moderate right ventricular (RV) dilation and hypokinesia with flattening of his interventricular septum and dilated inferior vena cava. Together, these findings led to the suspicion of PE, subsequently confirmed by a CT pulmonary angiography . According to the simplified PE Severity Index (sPESI; ), an extensively validated prognostic tool for predicting death and adverse outcome events in patients with PE, our patient had a score of 0. This data, in combination with the hemodynamic status of our patient, signs of RV dysfunction and cardiac laboratory biomarkers, allowed us to classify our patient as having an intermediate to low risk of early mortality. Given the diagnosis of bilateral PE and encouraged by the results of the EINSTEIN PE trial , we decided to start therapy with rivaroxaban (15 mg, twice daily). In the following days the patient showed a progressive improvement of clinical status and laboratory tests. His troponin levels decreased from 905 ng/L on day 2 to 26 ng/L on day 4, pro-BNP from 6166 ng/L on day 1 to 543 ng/L on day 4 and D-dimer from 6987 ng/L to 1385 ng/L . Furthermore, his partial pressure of oxygen (pO 2 ) increased from 68.9 to 136.4 mmHg and the following parameters remained in the normal range; pH, partial pressure of). Supplemental oxygen was not administered. Five days after starting therapy, we performed another echocardiography showing a normalized RV function: ejection fraction (EF) of 55 %, systolic pulmonary artery pressure (PAPs) of 30 mmHg, and tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) of 26 mm. Seven days after starting treatment, the patient underwent a CT pulmonary angiography that revealed a significant improvement of filling defects in the lower lobes .
