A 37-year-old Japanese woman, scheduled to undergo a living-donor, ABO-compatible kidney transplant from her mother, was referred to our kidney transplant center in July 2012. At age 25 years, she had experienced acute kidney injury (AKI) due to bilateral renal vein thrombosis. At that time, she was diagnosed with APS secondary to SLE because of the repeated detection of high titers of antibody to double-stranded DNA (300 U/ml) and aCL IgG (39.6 U/ml) and low serum complement 3 (C3; 34 mg/dl) and complement 4 (C4; 2 mg/dl) concentrations. Following the diagnosis of AKI, she underwent hemodialysis (HD) for 2 weeks. Plasma exchange (PE), methylprednisolone pulse therapy and anticoagulation therapy ameliorated her AKI, and she no longer needed HD. She subsequently received immunosuppressive therapy with 5 mg prednisolone and anti-coagulant therapy with warfarin, to maintain an international normalized ratio (INR) between 2.0 and 3.0. During this time, her serum creatinine concentration remained stable (1.2 to 1.4 mg/dl; 103 to 120 μmol/L). However, at age 36 years, she experienced recurrent bilateral renal vein thrombosis and was again diagnosed with AKI. At the time of recurrent thrombosis, her INR was 1.5, which was lower than the target therapeutic range, despite receiving a sufficient amount of warfarin (3.0 mg/day). At the time of recurrence, her LA was positive (ratio 1.3; normal range <1.3), as determined by the Gradipore-LA Dilute Russell's viper venom time (dRVVT) test (Medical & Biological Laboratories Co., Ltd., Nagoya, Japan). The combination of immunosuppressive and anticoagulant therapy could not restore her kidney function. At age 37 years, she was diagnosed with end stage kidney disease, requiring maintenance HD. Because of thrombosis, three consecutive operations for arteriovenous fistula failed. Finally, an arteriovenous graft was created as vascular access for HD. All tests performed to investigate the causes of thrombophilia were within normal ranges, except for aPL assays. SLE activity was considered low because her serum C3 (91 mg/dl) and C4 (23 mg/dl) concentrations were normal, and there was no evidence of antibody to doublestranded DNA (<5.0 IU/ml). Her pre-treatment aCL and anti-β2GPI IgG concentrations were 42.6 U/ml (normal range <10 U/ml) and 13.9 U/ml (normal range <3.5 U/ml), respectively. Plasma aCL IgG (MESACUP cardiolipin test, Medical & Biological Laboratories Co., Ltd) and antiβ2GPI IgG (anti-CL-β2GPI EIA kit, Yamasa Co., Choshi, Japan) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. The dRVVT test before kidney transplantation was positive (ratio 1.3). Her 63-year-old mother had sufficient eGFR (109 ml/min/1.73 m 2 ) and two human leukocyte antigen (HLA) mismatches with the recipient. Tests for histocompatibility, including complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) crossmatch, flow crossmatch and flow cytometry panel-reactive antibody (PRA) tests, showed that the donor and recipient were histocompatible. Kidney transplantation was planned for February 2013. The pretreatment protocol consisted of prophylactic plasmapheresis plus full anticoagulation therapy to counteract the risks of early graft thrombosis and bleeding. Double filtration plasmapheresis (DFPP) was performed using a KM-8900EX (Kuraray Medical, Tokyo, Japan) machine with a Plasmacure PE-05 plasma separator (Kuraray Medical) and Evaflux 2A20 plasma fractionator (Kawasumi Laboratories, Tokyo, Japan). During DFPP, 2500 ml of blood was treated, with replacement by 450 ml of 11.25% albumin solution. PE was performed using a KM-8900EX machine with a Plasmacure PE-05 plasma separator, with replacement by 2700 ml of fresh frozen plasma (FFP). The clinical course and treatment of the patient are shown in . The induction immunosuppressive regimen consisted of combination therapy with prolongedrelease tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), methylprednisolone and basiliximab. MMF (1000 mg/day), was started 10 days before kidney transplantation. Anticoagulation therapy with 2.5 mg/day warfarin was replaced by daily continuous injections of heparin (10,000 units/day), starting 7 days before transplantation, with the dose of heparin adjusted to maintain an activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) of 40 to 60, with heparin suspended 3 hours before surgery. DFPP was performed on days −6 and −4 and PE on day −1. aCL and anti-β2GPI IgGs were successfully removed by both DFPP and PE, with both being within normal range on day −1 (3.8 IU/ml and 1.9 U/ml, respectively). No apparent adverse effects were observed during plasmapheresis. The right kidney of the donor was transplanted into the right iliac fossa of the recipient. Intraoperative bleeding was 582 ml and the amount of transfused red cell concentrates was 560 ml. Post-operative hemoglobin was 9.4 g/dl. Allograft kidney function rapidly appeared after kidney transplantation. Anti-coagulation therapy with heparin (10,000 units/day) was restarted on the morning of day +1 and replaced by warfarin on day +14. After transplantation, aCL and anti-β2GPI IgGs increased to their levels before plasmapheresis. However, no obvious thrombotic complications, including increased serum d-dimer levels, were observed after transplantation. The patient was discharged 21 days after transplantation, receiving maintenance anti-coagulation therapy with warfarin (3 mg/ day) and a maintenance immunosuppressive regimen, consisting of prolonged-release tacrolimus (6 mg/day), MMF (1500 mg/day) and methylprednisolone (4 mg/day). Three months after kidney transplantation, her serum creatinine level was stable (0.69 mg/dl; 59.5 μmol/L) without apparent proteinuria, and her titer of anti-β2GPI IgG was high (17.8 U/ml). Pathological findings of a protocol allograft biopsy taken 3 months after kidney transplantation are shown in . There was no evidence of arteriole thrombosis or lupus nephritis. Her Banff score was t1 i1 g0 v0 ci0 ct1 mm0 cv0 ah0 ptc0; and immunofluorescence findings were negative. Borderline changes were diagnosed. At the present time, one year after transplantation, her serum creatinine concentration remains stable (0.67 mg/dl; 57.8 μmol/L), although she has a high anti-β2GPI IgG titer (31.9 U/ml) and is positive on the dRVVT test (ratio 1.3). She has not experienced any bleeding or thrombotic complications while remaining on anticoagulant therapy with warfarin to maintain an INR between 2.0 and 3.0.
