A 69-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with a fever of two weeks duration. The antibiotics prescribed by another physician after the onset of his fever were ineffecblood cell count, Seg: neutrophilic granulocyte segmented form, Ly: lymphocytes, Mo: monocytes, Eo: eosinophils, RBC: red blood cell count, Hb: hemoglobin, PLT: platelet count, TP: total protein, ALB: albumin, UN: nitrogen, Cr: creatinine, CRP: C-reactive protein, ESR: erythrocyte sedimentation rate, IgG: immunoglobulin G, CH50: complement activities, ANA: antinuclear antibodies, RF: rheumatoid factor, ACPA: anti-citrullinated peptide antibody, KL-6: sialylated carbohydrate antigen, SPA: surfactant protein A, SPD: surfactant protein D, MPO-ANCA: myeloperoxidase antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, PR3-ANCA: proteinase 3 antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, GBM: glomerular basement membrane, PA-Ig: platelet-associated immunoglobulin, HPF: high-power field, LPF: low-power field tive. The patient's appetite declined and skin eruptions appeared on his face and neck. His medical history was unremarkable. He had a 45-year history of smoking 20 cigarettes a day (between 20 and 65 years of age). On physical examination, the patient's body temperature was 38.0. His face and neck showed fused scaled erythematous papules , and he had oral ulcers. Auscultation of the chest revealed fine crackles over the back lower lung field. There was no edema in either leg. His right tympanic membrane was perforated. There were no signs or symptoms of nasal involvement. The laboratory data were as follows: white blood cell (WBC) count (2,700/μL), hemoglobin (10.4 g/dL), platelet count (9.3/μL), C-reactive protein (, Intermediate-2) by a hematologist. Following treatment with pulsed methylprednisolone (PMPSL; 1,000 mg/day for 3 consecutive days per week), we started treatment with oral prednisolone (50 mg/day). The patient's fever declined, his skin eruptions and renal function improved, and his otitis media showed gradual improvement. One week after starting therapy (MPO-ANCA titer: 28.9 EU/mL), the patient experienced chest pain and hemoptysis. Computed tomography (CT) showed new bilateral diffuse consolidation in his lower lobes. This finding and the concurrent progression of the patient's anemia were suggestive of DAH . At the same time, his serum Cr level, microscopic hematuria and granular casts improved, but his hypocomplementemia worsened and his anti-dsDNA antibody titer increased . There was no elevation in the serum levels of antibodies to adenovirus serotypes 3, 7, 21 (neutralization test) or Mycoplasma pneumonia (particle agglutination) in samples that were taken on days 1 and 18. We hypothesized that the patient's DAH was complicated with GPA, despite the improvement of his other GPA symptoms, including renal insufficiency. However, the patient's hypocomplementemia and the increase in his anti-dsDNA antibody level suggested that his DAH was caused by SLE. The patient was treated with P-MPSL for 3 weeks (3 consecutive days per week), and underwent three cycles of plasmapheresis (3 consecutive days per week) in our intensive care unit with intubation. Soon after treatment, his creatinine level increased and red blood cell casts appeared in his urine. We added intravenous cyclophosphamide pulse therapy (IVCY; 750 mg, once biweekly). His bilateral lung fields showed sufficient improvement to allow extubation. The patient's serum Cr level declined, the red blood cell casts in his urine disappeared, and his MPO-ANCA titer declined. After the improvement of his alveolar hemorrhage, the patient became febrile again and a new consolidation emerged in the bilateral upper lung fields. A cytomegalovirus (CMV) antigenemia test [C7-horseradish peroxidase (HRP)] was positive (49 cells/50,000). We started treatment with ganciclovir and tazobactam/piperacillin (TAZ/PIPC) based on the empirical findings; however, the patient remained febrile and his C7-HRP level (42 cells/50,000) showed no decline after two weeks of TAZ/PIPC treatment. Ganciclovir was changed to foscarnet because we suspected ganciclovir-resistant CMV. In addition, we changed TAZ/ PIPC to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole based on the results of antimicrobial susceptibility testing after Stenotrophomonas maltophilia grew in a sputum culture. Under this new treatment, the consolidation of the bilateral upper lung fields improved, the Stenotrophomonas maltophilia in the sputum culture disappeared and a C7-HRP test became negative. During this period, we continued to administer IVCY (750 mg, once biweekly) in accordance with the recommendaHowever, one week later, his CRP level started to increase and the patient became febrile again. In contrast, to the previous laboratory findings, there was no increase in his MPO-ANCA titer. A 1,3-beta-D-glucan test and antigen tests for Aspergillus galactomannan, Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans were negative. We suspected a relapse of vasculitis and administered P-MPSL. However, three days later, the patient suffered a second alveolar hemorrhage. shows the laboratory test results. We reperformed plasmapheresis and resumed the administration IVCY (750 mg). In spite of these treatments, the patient's alveolar hemorrhage and renal function consistently worsened, his Cr level increased, and he died of respiratory failure . The patient's family requested that no autopsy was performed.
