A 57-year-old patient with multiple cardiovascular risk factors was hospitalized for an uncomplicated anterolateral non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome. He was treated with Aspirin, unfractionned Heparin and Prasugrel. The coronary angiography showed a three-vessel disease of the left anterior descending, lateral and right coronary arteries. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 56 % with a mild anterolateral hypokinesis. Triple coronary artery bypass grafting was scheduled. The procedure was prolonged by intraoperative bleeding which was difficult to control (extracorporeal circulation: 4 h16; aortic clamping: 3 h13). Postoperative TEE disclosed a moderately decreased LVEF of 45 % with an anterolateral hypokinesis, normal left ventricular (LV) filling pressures and right ventricular (RV) function. A vasopressor support (1.6 mg/h) was required due to unstable hemodynamics (lactate: 4.28 mmol/L). On Day 4, a ventilator-associated pneumonia was diagnosed (Klebsiella pneumoniae and Hemophilus influenzae). Despite adapted antibiotic therapy, the patient developed a severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) on Day 7, with a PaO 2 /FiO 2 ratio of 74 (FiO 2 : 1). Hemodynamic monitoring was initiated on Day 6 due to persistent need of vasopressor support and worsening of gas exchange. It was performed using a single-use, monoplane TEE miniaturized probe (diameter 5.5 mm) connected to a dedicated echographic system which allows two-dimensional imaging and color Doppler mapping, but has no spectral Doppler capability (Imacor®, New-York, NY, USA). This device is approved by the Food and Drug Administration and has a European Community mark for 72 h of continuous use . The patient was hemodynamically assessed every 6 to 8 h and whenever a clinically relevant event occurred. The transverse view of great vessels, long axis view and transgastric short-axis view of the heart were analyzed to determine the main mechanism that caused circulatory failure . The first hemodynamic evaluations ruled out a preload-dependence, a relevant ventricular dysfunction and valvulopathy, and a pericardial effusion . Specifically, there was no evidence for an early surgery-related complication such as mediastinal hematoma. Accordingly, the vasopressor support was maintained since patient's hemodynamic status was stabilized with steady infusion rates. Despite a protective ventilation and a PEEP trial (FiO 2 : 1; respiratory rate: 22/min; tidal volume: 6 ml/kg ideal body weight; PEEP: 14 cmH 2 O), the PaO 2 /FiO 2 ratio remained as low as 63. Accordingly, a contrast study was performed at H37 toIn the presence of a circulatory failure, the following therapeutic algorithm based on the analysis of three transverse views (great vessels, transesophageal long-axis four-chamber view of the heart, transgastric short-axis view of the heart) was used: large respiratory variations of superior vena cava size (inspiratory collapse) in the transverse view of the great vessel were indicative of preload-dependence (fluid loading); a right ventricular end-diastolic area exceeding the left ventricular end-diastolic area in the transesophageal long-axis four-chamber view of the heart was indicative of a marked dilatation of a failing right ventricle, potentially associated with an acute cor pulmonale; left ventricular fractional area change < 45 % in the transgastric short-axis view of the heart was indicative of systolic dysfunction in the absence of preload-dependence (administration of inotropes), while a paradoxical septal motion with a restrained left ventricle in this view was indicative of acute cor pulmonale (protective ventilation, reduced PEEP level, prone ventilation, nitric oxide administration, vasopressor support) screen for a potential patent foramen ovale (PFO). A PFO shunting was depicted with an atrial septum aneurysm . PEEP was decreased to 8 cm H 2 O and inhaled nitric oxide was administered while the patient remained hemodynamically stable under vasopressor support . This resulted in an increase of the PaO 2 /FiO 2 ratio up to 130. At H46, the clinical course was complicated by an abrupt hemodynamic deterioration with hypotension, skin mottling and oliguria associated with a rapid supraventricular tachycardia (170 bpm), which was efficiently treated by antiarrhythmic drugs. A new hemodynamic assessment using the miniaturized TEE probe disclosed a large mediastinal hematoma compressing the entire left atrium (LA) and a moderate, non compressive pericardial effusion. To ascertain the diagnosis of localized tamponade prior to surgical decompression, a regular multiplane TEE study was immediately performed and was confirmatory . The patient was immediately reoperated. The surgeon confirmed the presence of a non compressive hemopericardium of ~300 mL and of a tamponade secondary to a large LA hematoma of ~500 mL of fresh blood. The patient sustained shock with multiple organ failure. Further TEE assessment confirmed the full evacuation of LA hematoma and ruled out a preload-dependence or a ventricular dysfunction. Despite the increase of vasopressor therapy, the patient died on Day 3 secondary to refractory shock.
