A 36-year-old married female was brought to the emergency department (ED) after developing severe pain of both lower extremities and gradual decreased mental status during aerobic dance 12 hours prior. She was doing well without any cardiovascular risk factors. On her arrival at the ED, her blood pressure was 120/ 80 mmHg and her respiratory rate was 22 breaths/minute. An electrocardiography showed normal sinus rhythm, but a chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly with enlargement of both atria. To evaluate her decreased mental status and pain in both lower extremities, brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion and computed tomography angiography (CTA) for the lower extremities were conducted. The brain MRI revealed an acute multifocal territorial infarct . The CTA revealed complete segmental obstruction of the aortic bifurcation, proximal portion of the bilateral common iliac arteries, right internal iliac artery, bilateral popliteal arteries, and multifocal spleen and renal infarctions in the bilateral kidneys .To evaluate the multifocal embolic sources, transthoracic echocardiography was conducted. It revealed a large (5.7×3 cm), round, and pedunculated homogeneous mass that occupied most of the right atrium (RA) and prolapsed through the tricuspid valve with functional tricuspid stenosis and another large (3.8×2 cm) villous mass that was attached to the septal side with no stalk in the large left atrium (LA) with mild mitral regurgitation (MR) . Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed as having embolic infarctions of multiple organs with huge biatrial myxomas. Because of the risk of progression in systemic embolic events, we decided on emergent surgical treatment. At surgery, the biatrial masses were excised, and the tumor emboli in the abdominal aorta, bilateral iliac arteries, femoral arteries, and popliteal arteries were removed using a Fogarty embolectomy catheter. Histologic findings of the biopsy specimen revealed myxoma and tumor emboli from LA myxoma. Surgical excision revealed a 4×4×3 cm RA myxoma with a narrow stalk at the RA posterior wall and a 5×4×3 cm LA myxoma with a broad base attaching to the atrial septum. The histologic findings of myxoma revealed the characteristic finding of pale-staining, granular inflammatory cells . Postoperatively, the patient recovered from the renal infarction and limb ischemia but had a unilateral visual field defect due to the brain infarction. She was discharged uneventfully on the fourteenth postoperative day.
