A 62 years old male presented Type A aortic dissection underwent emergent surgery. Cardiopulmonary bypass was instituted with right atrial drainage and femoral artery cannulation. The ascending aorta was clamped and then opened and carefully inspected, identifying the intimal tear extending into the aortic arch. The patient was cooled to a rectal temperature of 22 °C, and then the circulatory arrest was instituted associated with retrograde cerebral perfusion. The epiaortic vessels were prepared as a single button. The descending aorta was carefully transected and its inner dimensions were examined to select a graft that properly fit and a severely ragged descending aorta wall was diagnosed. Horizontal mattress stitches were placed in the descending thoracic aorta, while applying a Teflon felt strip on the outside of the transected aorta . A 30 mm Hemashield (30 cm length) woven double velour, Meadox, USA) graft was selected, the distal part was extroverted as a " cuff " for about 4 cm of the graft which were carefully * Correspondence: fadilademaj1971@gmail.com 2 Division of Cardiology, Gjakovo Hospital, Rr. Prizren, Gjakovo, Kosovo Full list of author information is available at the end of the article located inside the descending thoracic aorta . Then the distal anastomosis was constructed between the descending thoracic aorta and the circular free edge of the extroverted graft using a 4/0 continuous prolene suture. After the completion of the distal anastomosis , the descending thoracic aorta was inspected and the graft was invaginated futher inside the native descending thoracic aorta with an extra 4–5 cm . Then, four horizontal mattress stitches between the reinforced rim of the native aorta and the prosthesis (preferably reinforced with pledgets) were passed from inside the graft to outside including the reversed section of the graft and then were tied down, fixing definitively the length of the graft serving as an elephant trunk . The superior aspect of the graft was prepared to accomodate the button of the epiaortic vessels which were implanted into the graft . Then the perfusion was restarted. The distal anastomosis was carefully inspected for any leakage. The distal anastomosis is a flexible structure and the visualization of the posterior aspect of the anastomosis was easier, simply by pressing with a forceps the graft towards the inferior aspect. A Bentall operation consisting in the implantation of a 23 mm Valve tube (St Jude) . One week later a contrast enhanced angio-CT demonstrated excellent outcome, however the elephant trunk was not totally attached to the descending thoracic aorta and the constructed " extroverted cuff " was easily identified . Two years after surgery an angio-CT demonstrated a normal perfusion of the distal aorta and normally functioning elephant trunk, totally attached to the native descending thoracic aorta .
