We present the case of a 57-year-old non-smoker with a significant past medical history of colon diverticulosis, which was first diagnosed in April 2009 after he presented with haematochezia. Colonoscopy performed then had revealed florid caecal, ascending hepatic flexure and sigmoid diverticulosis. He was readmitted in July 2013 with a two-day history of 14 episodes of haematochezia. It was similar to his previous 2009 presentation. The patient did not have any symptoms of intestinal obstruction or ischaemic bowel, nor did he report any constitutional or anaemic symptoms. He had no family history of inflammatory bowel disease. On physical examination, the patient was alert, afebrile, normotensive (blood pressure: 113/64) and not tachycardic (heart rate: 89 bpm). His abdomen was soft and non-tender, with no sign of peritonitis. Digital rectal examination revealed fresh blood stains but no melaena or mass. Proctoscopy was negative for haemorrhoids and rectal ulcers. Full blood count revealed normocytic, normochromic anaemia, with haemoglobin level at 8.0 g/dL. Coagulation profile, liver function tests and cardiac enzymes were all normal. Plain chest and abdominal radiography did not reveal any bowel obstruction or viscus perforation. After resuscitation and transfusion with 3 units of packed red blood cells, his haemoglobin level improved to 9.4 g/dL. Colonoscopy performed the next day after bowel preparation, demonstrated pan-colonic diverticulosis with altered blood staining the left colon. However, there was no evidence of any active bleed. Intubation of the terminal ileum did not suggest bleeding proximally from the small intestine. Although haemodynamically stable, the patient had three further episodes of haematochezia, with haemoglobin level dropping to 7.5 g/dL. Computed tomography (CT) mesenteric angiography revealed bleeding colonic diverticulosis, with active contrast extravasations at the caecum and proximal ascending colon. The patient then underwent successful endovascular embolisation of the bleeding caecal vasa recta with two 3-mm Vortex coils and one 2-mm Helical coil. During the procedure, there was an incidental finding of a 9-mm fusiform jejunal artery aneurysm . Management options of surveillance versus endovascular embolisation were discussed, and given the context of the bleeding diverticular disease, the patient was keen to proceed with embolisation to prevent future jejunal artery aneurysmal complications. The following day, he underwent endovascular embolisation. Intraoperatively, the aneurysm was identified with a selective superior mesentery artery angiogram. A C1 catheter was advanced into the jejunal branch harbouring the aneurysm and a Progreat microcatheter was then inserted coaxially into the jejunal branch and advanced beyond the aneurysm. Initial embolisation of the distal artery with a 4-mm Vortex coil failed, as the coil spontaneously migrated proximally into the sac. Subsequently, a 4-mm and a 3-mm coil were successfully deployed into the distal artery and a 6-mm Vortex coil was deployed within the sac. The proximal artery was successfully embolised with another 4-mm Vortex coil. Complete occlusion of the jejunal branch was then demonstrated, with no filling of the aneurysmal sac. Distal bowel was well perfused via a jejunal collateral network . The patient had an uneventful post-procedure recovery and was discharged four days later with no further bleeding episodesABSTRACT Jejunal artery aneurysms are rare, with only six cases reported in the literature to date. Endovascular embolisation of the jejunal artery is rarely performed. Herein, we report the case of a 57-year-old man who successfully underwent endovascular embolisation for bleeding caecal diverticulosis, during which a 9-mm fusiform jejunal artery aneurysm was incidentally diagnosed. Subsequently, the jejunal aneurysm was successfully embolised using Vortex coils.
