A 23-year-old woman who had never smoked and had no remarkable previous history presented with a cough and right chest pain. A physical examination indicated a systolic murmur at the left sternal border and diminished breath sounds over the right lung. A chest radiograph disclosed a large amount of right pleural effusion, and an echocardiographic examination showed a tumor extending from the right pulmonary artery to the pulmonary trunk , which was subsequently confirmed on contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT). In addition, CECT revealed scattered lesions in the right pleura ( , C), and positron emission tomography (PET)-computed tomography (CT) showed an increased 2-deoxy-2 fluoro-D-glucose uptake in the lesions . No other tumors were detected on whole-body PET-CT or brain magnetic resonance imaging. A biopsy of the pleural tumors demonstrated proliferation of uniform short spindle cells with ovoid vesicular nuclei and mitoses of up to seven mitotic bodies in a 2-mm 2 area . An immunohistochemical analysis of the tumor cells revealed a positive expression for AE1/AE3 , vimentin, S100, CD56, CD99 and BCL-2. In contrast, staining for CAM5.2, epithelial membrane antigen, CD34, CD31, desmin, smooth muscle actin, p63 and CD21 was negative. The SYT-SSX fusion gene was detected using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction , and a pathological examination showed the tumor to be SS, although no malignant cells were detected in the pleural effusion. Palliative radiation therapy (54 Gy in 27 fractions over 41 days) was administered to the mediastinum in order to prevent pulmonary trunk obstruction. Ifosfamide (10 g/ m 2 ) was also administered via continuous infusion over five days every three to four weeks due to the rapid progression of the pleural lesions despite performing thoracic drainage and pleurodesis. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy were effective in reducing both tumor growth and the pleural effusion . The tumor has remained well controlled with ifosfamide chemotherapy for one year.
