A 45-year-old healthy female patient presented with abrupt visual deterioration in the right eye (RE) of 1-day duration. On examination, visual acuity (VA) was counting fingers at 3 meters in the RE and 6/6 in the left eye (LE). Intraocular pressure (IOP) values were normal. In the RE, there was moderate non-granulomatous iridocyclitis, diffuse perivascular sheathing reminiscent of FBA, with exudative maculopathy and papillitis . The LE anterior and posterior segments were normal. Work-up, which included complete blood count (CBC), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), liver and kidney function tests, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), chest X-ray (CXR), antinuclear antibody (ANA) screen and aqueous tap for herpetic viruses, was unyielding. She was thus diagnosed as having primary FBA. She was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone (1 g/day for 3 consecutive days), following which she was put on a tapering regimen of oral steroids. VA gradually improved, and 3 months later it was 6/18, with residual CME and marked resolution of the diffuse perivascular sheathing. Four months following initial presentation, she presented with profound loss of RE vision (counting fingers at 2 meters) secondary to non-ischemic central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and CME . Hypercoagulability work-up was negative. She was treated with prednisolone (1 mg/kg/day), with a tapering regimen thereafter, and monthly intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg/0.05 ml) injections were added. Significant improvement in CME was observed after two bevacizumab injections, where central macular thickness decreased from 1070 to 328 μ; however, functional improvement in VA was more gradual and lagged behind the structural improvement of CME. Ten months later she had recovered VA of 6/12, with minimal residual macular intraretinal fluid. Retinal non-perfusion gradually ensued in the peripheral retina. VA after a follow-up period of 44 months was 6/15, prednisolone dose was 1 mg/day, and intravitreal bevacizumab was administered every 6–8 weeks. Peripheral ghost retinal vessels and macular atrophic retinal changes were observed.
A 37-year-old healthy man presented with left eye blurring of vision of 4-day duration. On examination, VA was 6/6 in the RE and 6/12 in the LE. IOP measurements were normal. RE anterior and posterior segments were normal. In LE, there was ciliary injection and signs of non-granulomatous anterior uveitis with +3 anterior chamber cells and flare, and trace vitreous cells. Fundoscopy revealed optic disc swelling and diffuse hemorrhagic perivascular sheathing, with small preretinal hemorrhages in the peripheral retina . FA revealed diffuse vascular and optic disc leakage . No signs of vascular occlusion were noted. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) revealed edema in the inner retinal layers and small intraretinal cystoid spaces in the foveal area, with some irregularity of the foveal contour. The patient was admitted; work-up including CBC, ESR, CRP, liver and kidney function tests, syphilis serological tests and CXR was uneventful. The patient was ultimately diagnosed with primary FBA and was treated with a pulse therapy of intravenous methylprednisolone (1 g/day for 5 days), with a tapering regimen of oral steroids thereafter. Ten days later, VA was 6/6, with marked resolution of the perivascular sheathing and diffuse retinal hemorrhages. Three months later the patient presented with an acute loss of LE vision. VA was 6/18, and there were no signs of anterior uveitis. However, fundoscopy revealed non-ischemic CRVO: diffuse flame-shaped retinal hemorrhages, optic disc swelling and marked CME. Hypercoagulability work-up was negative. Treatment was started with monthly intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg/0.05 ml), which was switched to ranibizumab (0.5 mg/0.05 ml) 4 months later because of insufficient response. CME eventually resolved, but the patient continued to require anti-VEGF intravitreal injections every 8 weeks because of the resurgence of CME. Twenty months later, VA was 6/10, with minimal CME and ghost retinal vessels in the peripheral retina. A 22-year-old healthy woman presented with sudden onset of LE visual loss of 5-day duration. Her ocular history was significant for RE anisometropic myopic amblyopia (finger counting at 1 meter). LE VA was 6/120. Anterior segments were normal. RE fundus showed posterior myopic staphyloma. LE fundus showed widespread FBA involving the arteries and veins, with diffuse perivascular haemorrhages in the superior and inferior parts of the retina and papillitis . OCT showed florid CME. Work-up including CBC, ESR, CRP, ACE, ANA, tuberculin skin test, and serological tests for syphilis, herpes viruses and human immunodeficiency virus was negative. FA revealed leakage from the optic disc and the major retinal vessels, and obliteration of the peripheral retinal vasculature because of the scattered intraretinalhaemorrhages. No signs of vascular occlusion were noted. The patient was hence diagnosed with unilateral primary FBA, and treatment was instituted with prednisolone (1 mg/kg/day), which was gradually tapered. One month later, VA had improved to 6/7.5, with significant improvement of CME. However, 10 weeks following initial presentation, the patient presented with an acute loss of LE vision to 6/120. FA revealed ischemic branch retinal vein occlusion along the inferotemporal arcade, with recurrent CME. Prompt treatment with intravitreal bevacizumab was started (1.25 mg/0.05 ml), with rapid recovery of VA to 6/6 by day 15. Laser photocoagulation was applied to ischemic retinal areas. Fourteen months later, VA was maintained at 6/6 .
