A 31-year-old man received via the emergency medical services presented to our emergency department (ED) shortly after sustaining multiple stab wounds to the left anterior chest, left axilla and left upper extremity. En route, the patient's blood pressure was 112/70mmHg and he had a pulse rate of 80bpm. He was diaphoretic at the scene, which improved on arrival to the ED. A standard Advanced Trauma Life Support ® approach was initiated immediately in the trauma bay. The patient was sent for computed tomography (CT) of the chest with contrast in a stable condition. The CT revealed a left upper lobe laceration, a large left haemothorax, a small left pneumothorax and extensive haemorrhages in the mediastinum surrounding the aortic arch with a hint of tiny extrusion at the aortic arch but no obvious source of bleeding. A chest tube placed into the left haemothorax put out 1,800ml serosanguinous drainage in the first 24 hours. The subsequent CT angiography (CTA) revealed a nipple of contrast at the mid aortic arch. A mid aortic arch injury could not be distinguished on the CTA from a laceration of the arterial/ venous branch vessel in the mediastinum. The patient was then transferred to the surgical intensive care unit for monitoring. His blood pressure on transfer was 113/67mmHg and his heart rate was 74bpm. The cardiothoracic surgery service was consulted and the patient was started on an esmolol drip that was titrated to maintain his systolic blood pressure between 90mmHg and 110mmHg. Formal aortography performed on day 2 ruled out active arterial laceration but was consistent with a pseudoaneurysm at the mid aortic arch. The repeat aortography performed on day 6 revealed a slight increase in the size of the pseudoaneurysm. The follow-up CTA on days 3 and 9 demonstrated a contrast protrusion of 2.6mm x 3.0mm and 2.2mm Â 2.0mm respectively at the mid aortic arch. These findings were consistent in location with the CTA from the day of admission. Cardiothoracic surgery showed the aortic injury was stable. After lengthy discussion with the patient and his family,
Ann R Coll Surg Engl 2015; 97: 184–187 doi 10.1308/003588414X13946184903243 it was decided to proceed with non-operative management. The patient's hospital course was uncomplicated. On day 10, he was discharged with instructions to take metoprolol 50mg twice daily for blood pressure control, to refrain from all strenuous activity and to attend regular follow-up appointments as an outpatient with surveillance imaging. CTA at four days after discharge revealed enlargement of the focus of enhancement adjacent to the aortic arch measuring 4.5mm x 3.5mm.
