An 85-year-old man with 30 pack-year history of smoking presented to our hospital with a complaint of chest discomfort and exertional dyspnea persisting since a month. He had suffered myocardial infarction 9 years prior to this episode. He had worked as a gardener for about 40 years. Prior to becoming a gardener, he handled asbestos for 2 years in a factory. An electrocardiogram on admission revealed sinus tachycardia of 110 beats per minute. We observed a mild deterioration of his oxygen saturation to 93 % on room air with effort. His chest computed tomography (CT) revealed a massive pericardial effusion and bilateral mild pleural effusions without any tumors; these findings likely eliminated the diagnoses of primary lung cancer and metastatic carcinomas . In addition, right pleural plaques were clearly observed on chest CT after 8 months (
and Additional file 1:
). Cardiac ultrasonography also showed a massive pericardial effusion that caused a cardiac tamponade. A needle pericardiocentesis was immediately performed. The total amount of removed pericardial fluid was 2300 mL. This fluid was a bloody exudate with a specific gravity of 1.032. The chest discomfort and dyspnea markedly improved after the pericardiocentesis. To maintain the improvements in his symptoms, we initiated the administration of loop diuretics (20 mg/day). No further ), which were positively stained with calretinin, D2-40, and Wilms' tumor 1 (WT1) ( –d, respectively). Furthermore, the cells were positively stained for p53 and epithelial membrane antigen and negatively stained for CEA (data not shown). Thus, he was diagnosed with PPM. Considering his age, he did not receive any chemotherapy. To date, only a loop diuretic has been administered for controlling the pericardial effusion. He was discharged on the 20th day of hospitalization. Chest CT 8  and 16 months  later revealed that the pericardial effusion was well controlled. Although his symptoms of general fatigue and trunk pain slowly but steadily progressed and the pericardial effusion slightly increased, he remained fully active 18 months after his initial presentation.
