The above technique is illustrated in a 31-year-old obese (body mass index 36.8 kg/m 2 ) male smoker with hypertension and diabetes who was incidentally found to have congenital coarctation of the aorta (peak systolic pressure gradient 38 mm Hg) and a post-stenotic fusiform descending thoracic aortic aneurysm (maximum transverse diameter 6.8 cm) that extended downward to 8 cm above the celiac artery origin ( and B). Endovascular treatment was planned despite the young age of the patient as he had medical comorbidities and was keen to avoid open repair. Preservation of flow into the LSA was desirable as extensive endograft coverage of the descending aorta was required. However, the complex anatomy and sharply angulated takeoff of the LSA precluded use of a chimney graft and made correct orientation of a fenestrated endograft difficult; use of an externalized guidewire to facilitate the latter was therefore considered. The procedure was performed under general anesthesia after obtaining written informed consent that included the use of a physician-modified endograft. An 8-mm circular fenestration was made with its center 35 mm from the proximal edge of a 26×164-mm Valiant Captivia thoracic endograft as described earlier . RFA, LBA, and right radial artery accesses were obtained percutaneously. Three Proglide sutures (Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA, USA) were deployed in the RFA and tied at the end of the procedure. After baseline angiography and pressure measurements, the aortic coarctation was dilated using a 20-mm-diameter Maxi LD balloon (Cordis Corporation, Bridgewater, NJ, USA; ). The delivery system was advanced into the aortic arch without wire wrap as described earlier . A 6-F diagnostic catheter introduced from the right radial artery was used to delineate the LCCA angiographically during endograft deployment . A 7×38-mm V12 covered stent (AtriumMedical/Maquet Cardiovascular, Hudson, NH, USA) was deployed within the LSA fenestration. Simultaneous balloon dilation was performed using a 22-mm Maxi LD balloon in the coarctation segment and a 7-mm balloon in the LSA stent . An overlapping 34×150-mm Valiant endograft without proximal FreeFlo was deployed in the lower descending aorta. A good angiographic result was obtained ( ,H) with no endoleak and preserved flow into all the aortic arch branches; the peak systolic pressure gradient across the coarctation segment fell to 15 mm Hg. The procedure took 137 minutes, including 54 minutes of fluoroscopy. The postoperative period was uneventful except for LBA access site thrombosis, which was successfully resolved by aspiration using a 6-F guiding catheter introduced from the left radial artery. There were no neurological deficits or other complications. A spinal drain was not used during or required after the procedure. The patient remained well and asymptomatic, though a type II endoleak through coarctation-related collateral channels was noted. Eight months after the procedure, the patient presented acutely with left lower limb pain and numbness, with absent distal pulses in this limb. CTA revealed separation of the 2 descending aortic endografts with type III endoleak, suggesting inadequate overlap between the 2 aortic endografts when deployed. Thrombus from the repressurized aneurysm sac had probably embolized downstream, causing left lower limb ischemia. Using percutaneous RFA access as before, a 34×202-mm Zenith thoracic endograft (Cook Medical) was deployed bridging the 2 existing endografts and successfully abolishing the endoleak. The LSA stent was noted to be patent and undistorted, with normal flow through it. The left lower limb ischemia resolved completely with anticoagulant therapy. The patient has been asymptomatic since then; CTA at 6 months after the second procedure  revealed structural integrity of the endografts, a patent LSA stent, and reduction in aneurysm size. The type II endoleak seen earlier was the only endoleak present.
The above multiple fenestration technique is illustrated in a 67-year-old hypertensive male smoker with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and pulmonary hypertension who was diagnosed to have type B aortic dissection 4 years ago and was managed conservatively. Over the past few months, he developed hoarseness, backache, progressive dyspnea, and, more recently, orthopnea. CTA ( and B) revealed extensive type B aortic dissection starting at the LSA and extending to the right common iliac artery; the false lumen was aneurysmal (distal aortic arch diameter 8.5 cm) and thrombus-laden, with a large entry tear adjoining the LSA. The true lumen was slit-like, and all the abdominal aortic visceral branches arose from it. There was extensive left hemothorax with partial lung collapse. Endovascular treatment was planned as he was high risk for surgery. In view of the proximity of the large proximal entry tear to the LSA origin and closeness of the arch branch origins to each other, it was decided to use a triple-fenestrated endograft, landing its proximal edge in the distal ascending aorta. The risk of cerebral embolization was considered fairly high as there was wide true-false communication veryCovered stent deployment in the IA fenestration (wide white arrow); a 6-F left subclavian artery (LSA) snare encircles nitinol guidewires (NGw, black arrows) that traverse the 2 other fenestrations and are exteriorized from a LCCA sheath. (C) Introduction of a hydrophilic guidewire (HGw) into the LCCA through a guiding catheter (wide white arrow) passed from the right femoral artery over the NGw traversing the LCCA fenestration; the HGw must not pass through the 6-F LSA snare loop that encircles the NGws (black arrows). (D) HGw in the LCCA caught by a 4-F snare, which then exteriorizes it from the LCCA sheath. (E) The NGw traversing the LCCA fenestration has been removed; pulling back on the LSA snare at this stage helps exteriorize the NGw traversing the LSA fenestration (black arrows). (F) Covered stent deployment in the LCCA fenestration (wide white arrow); the NGw traversing the LSA fenestration (black arrows) can be seen coursing directly into the LSA. close to the arch vessels and large thrombus burden in the adjacent false lumen. The treatment plan therefore included use of externalized guidewires for 2 fenestrations to facilitate rapid endograft deployment with minimal manipulation and transient balloon occlusion of the cerebral vessels during endograft delivery and deployment in the aortic arch. The procedure was performed under general anesthesia after obtaining written informed consent that included the use of a physician-modified endograft. Circular fenestrations measuring 10, 7, and 7 mm in diameter were made for the IA, LCCA, and LSA, respectively, in a 32×192-mm Valiant Captivia thoracic endograft. NGws were passed through the last 2 as described earlier . Multiple percutaneous vascular accesses were obtained, including the RFA, where 3 Proglide sutures were deployed and tied after the procedure. The procedure was carried out as described earlier. Transient (2 minutes, 12 seconds) balloon occlusion of the proximal IA, LCCA, and left vertebral arteries was carried out during endograft delivery  and deployment in the arch; additionally, rapid right ventricular pacing was instituted during endograft deployment. An overlapping 32–28×150-mm Valiant tapered endograft was deployed with its lower end just above the celiac artery ostium. A good angiographic result was obtained ( and D), with no false lumen filling in the thoracic aorta and preserved flow into the aortic arch branches. The procedure took 320 minutes, including 136 minutes of fluoroscopy. The postoperative period was uneventful. There were no neurological deficits or other complications; a spinal drain was not used during or required after the procedure. CTA after 3 weeks  showed an excellent result, with thrombosed thoracic aortic false lumen, after which it was deemed safe to insert a chest tube and drain the left hemothorax. The patient has done well clinically over the next 10 months, with complete resolution of symptoms. Chest radiography after 6 months showed significant reduction of the thoracic aortic shadow and good expansion of the left lung ( and G).
