A 50-year-old woman was transported to the emergency department with a sudden severe headache while at rest, nausea and vomiting. She had a longstanding diagnosis of homozygous sickle cell disease (HbSS) with known vaso-occlusive crises requiring hospital admissions in the past. On physical examination, she was agitated and photophobic with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 13 (E (a)), with extension into the third and fourth ventricles. CT angiography (CTA) ( (b) and (c)) demonstrated a left-sided 3 Â 5 mm fusiform bi-lobulated presumed dissecting vertebral artery aneurysm, immediately distal to the origin of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA). Codominant vertebral arteries were noted. Prior to endovascular repair, the patient underwent external ventricular drain (EVD) placement that yielded cerebrospinal fluid under high pressure. The patient was brought to the angiography suite for planned parent vessel sacrifice, via coiling of the aneurysm together with parent artery. Cerebral catheter angiography confirmed the fusiform-bilobed aneurysm of the left V4 arising distal to the PICA ( (a) and
(b)); however, there was also severe tortuosity of the vertebral access ( (c)) and the anterior spinal artery arose from the V4 segment of the vertebral artery bearing the aneurysm ( (a)). Hence, it was judged that parent artery sacrifice with occlusion of the anterior spinal artery may place the patient at risk of cord ischemia. Proximal (i.e. V3) sacrifice was also entertained but feltto be less favorable as there would be persistent albeit reversed flow through the aneurysm to keep the PICA open. Therefore, we selected a reconstructive approach with a flow-diverting technique. The patient was heparinized to an activated clotting time (ACT)>300. A nasogastric (NG) tube was placed and the patient was loaded with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 650 mg and Plavix 600 mg. A 6F Cook Shuttle 80 cm (Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN, USA) was placed in the left subclavian artery and a 105 cm 070 Neuron (Penumbra Inc, Alameda, CA, USA) was navigated into the cervical vertebral artery. Navigation was difficult because of tortuosity but ultimately a Marksman 150 cm (Covidien/Medtronic, Dublin, Ireland) was navigated over a microwire into the basilar artery past the aneurysm. A 4.75 Â 18 mm PED (Covidien/Medtronic, Dublin, Ireland) was then deployed within the V4 segment across the aneurysm ( (a)). Post-treatment angiography showed patency of the parent artery and patency of the ''jailed'' anterior spinal artery and PICA (origin covered by PED) ( (b)) as well as mild stasis in the aneurysm sac ( (c)). Given the patient's SCD and concern about thromboembolic complication with further stent coverage, we elected not to place additional stents telescopically. The patient was managed in the Neurotrauma intensive care unit (ICU) according to standard post-SAH protocols. Prophylactic nimodipine was administered. The patient was kept hydrated with intravenous (IV) fluid management to mitigate risk of vasospasm as well as vaso-occlusive disease. Daily ASA and Plavix were maintained. On postoperative day 2, the patient was treated empirically for fever with intravenous vancomycin and ceftazidime as well as intravascular cooling; however, pancultures were negative. Between postoperative day 1 and 5, the patient developed small asymptomatic hemorrhages surrounding the EVD tracts. The SAH and intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) gradually resolved. The EVDs were removed by day 12 with further mild increase in asymptomatic hemorrhage along the tracks. By postoperative day 18, she was neurologically intact and close to her functional baseline with a Modified Rankin scale (mRS) score of 1 for mild headache. Hydroxyurea for SCD was started at 500 mg twice daily (bid) at the suggestion of the Hematology Department and the patient was discharged the following day. Initial post-treatment magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and CTA performed in the first week postoperatively showed patency of the stented segment of the left vertebral artery with persistent filling of the aneurysm ( (a) and (b)). There were no postprocedural infarcts as detected by diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Imaging follow-up ( (c) and (d)) at three months and subsequent follow-up imaging at one to two years' postoperatively showed exclusion of the aneurysm and no evidence of in-stent stenosis or parent artery occlusion. She is clinically well at two years with no neurological deficits and her headaches have diminished in frequency and intensity. We have kept her on prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy with ASA and clopidogrel, in consultation with her hematologist.
