A 29-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for progressive shortness of breath for two weeks in the middle of December, 2011. Approximately 3 weeks before admission, the man had a fever of 38 and was relieved after two days of intravenous treatment with antibiotics. However, the patient felt a shortness of breath initially during exercise which gradually led to the onset of dyspnea while in the supine position. The symptom could be abated by sitting up or while in the lateral position. The patient's past history was unremarkable except he reported eating inadequately cooked snake 6 weeks prior to admission. The patient's physical findings were as follows: blood pressure, 120/88 mmHg; heart rate, 110/min; respiratory rate, 20/min; body temperature, 37.4; jugular vein distention; enlarged cardiac dullness; and distant cardiac sound. The initial laboratory test results were as follows: an increased white blood cell (WBC) count, eosinophil count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP) level, and total serum IgE level . The results Shanghai Institution of Cardiovascular Disease, Department of Cardiology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, China, Department of Cardiology, Haimen Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, China and Department of Echocardiography, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, China Received for publication June 18, 2014; Accepted for publication September 5, 2014 Correspondence to Dr. Juying Qian, qian.juying@zs-hospital.sh.cn atinine kinase, MB isoenzyme (CK-MB), serum autoimmune antibodies [including rheumatoid factor, anti-nuclear antibody (ANA), ds-DNA, extractable nuclear antigen (ENA), anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA), anti-mitochondrial antibody (AMA), anticardiolipin, cANCA, and p-ANCA], enterovirus RNA, and Coxsackie B virus IgM. The purified protein derivative (PPD) test was also negative. Electrocardiography (ECG) showed sinus tachycardia with T wave flat in lead of II, III, AVF, and V1-6. Echocardiography demonstrated a pericardial effusion of maximal depth 36 mm without hemodynamic significance . Chest computed tomography (CT) also showed a large amount of pericardial effusion and a minimal amount of pleural effusion and atelectasis in the left inferior lung lobe . The pericardial effusion was bloody in color, positive in Rivalta's reaction, and contained numerous red blood cells (25,416/mm 3 ) and inflammatory cells (1,512/mm 3 , 38% lymphocytes, 51% neutrophils, and 11% eosinophils). Protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels in the pericardial fluid and serum were 47.06 g/L and 1,150 U/L and 73 g/L and 241 U/L, respectively. Other pericardial effusion results were as, 48 U/L (Table 2). Malignant cells were not detected by cytological examination. Cultures for Mycobacterium tuberculosis or other bacteria were negative. Follow-up chest CT after pericardial effusion drainage (-2,000 mL) showed a medium amount of pericardial effusion, a minimal amount of pleural effusion, and multiple lesions in the left inferior lung lobe with high CT values . We suspected a parasitic infection based on the elevated eosinophils in the peripheral blood and pericardial effusion. However, neither worms nor eggs were found in the patient's stool or pericardial effusion. His serum was therefore examined by Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assayThe patient's serum was positive for Sparganum mansoni antibodies. Anti-Sparganum mansoni IgG of the patient's serum were determined using a commercially available ELISA kit (Kangbaide Biological Technology, Shenzhen, China, #S.m 080910) as previously described (14, 15). Anti-Sparganumspecific IgG in the patient's serum was higher (OD=0.93± 0.02) than the negative control level (OD=0.15±0.01). However, the ODs of the patient's serum IgG antibodies against the other parasites were similar to the negative controls. Furthermore, fundus examination and head and abdomen CT showed no evidence of eye, brain, or abdomen involvement. As a result, the clinical diagnosis was Sparganosis mansoni infection. Because the left lower lung lesions were close to the diaphragm and ribs, it was hard to perform a transcutaneous lung biopsy or bronchoscopy to get a pathological diagnosis. We recommended a surgical resection of the lung, but the patient refused this suggestion. The patient was therefore treated with praziquantel at 16.7 mg/kg/day for 9 days in combination with dexamethasone (0.75 mg tid) and moxifloxacin (0.4 g/day) to prevent immunoreaction and bacterial infection. The patient was discharged after 9 days of treatment with a symptomatic improvement. Approximately 10 days after discharge, the patient's blood examination showed a WBC count of 11.6×10 9 /L with 12.7% eosinophils (1.47×10 9 /L). The pericardial effusion decreased to less than 10 mm depth on echocardiography  and chest CT showed significantly decreased lung lesions . Approximately 4 weeks later, the patient was treated with a second course of praziquantel (50 mg/kg/day) for three days with dexamethasone (0.75 mg tid). His eosinophil count gradually returned to the normal range . Approximately 6 weeks after the second course of praziquantel treatment, both the pericardial effusion and the lung lesions disappeared on chest CT . The IgG antibody against Sparganum mansoni remained positive, but the serum OD was much lower than before (OD of the serum: 0.45±0.01, OD of negative control: 0.13±0.02). After 2 years follow-up, the patient's eosinophil count, echocardiography, and chest CT all remained normal. Repeated ELISA showed the serum OD against Sparganum mansoni antigen was negative (OD of the serum: 0.21±0.02, OD of negative control: 0.16±0.02).
