A 6-year-old female patient, who had previously been diagnosed with West syndrome, was referred to our hospital with an initial diagnosis of Henoch–Schönlein purpura (HSP) vasculitis. West syndrome is a severe epileptic syndrome composed of a triad of infantile spasms, an interictal electroencephalogram pattern termed hypsarrhythmia, and mental retardation. The patient had been admitted to a local hospital 3 weeks earlier with swelling at both knee joints. She was referred on to our hospital after she began to show bruises on her body. Upon physical examination, the patient was found to have purpura on some parts of her body, swellings at both knees and her left wrist, gingival bleeding, and nose bleeding. She was not found to have any organomegaly. The family stated that she had been suffering from gingival bleeding for the last 3 weeks, and she had had some nose bleeds since her birth. The findings were not indicative of child abuse. The patient was being given levetiracetam, lamotrigine, and clobazam for her West syndrome. She was not using an anticoagulant. The dietary history was significant inasmuch as she was consuming only soup. On admission, the patient's vital signs were documented as follows: oral fever 37 °C, heart rate 88/s, blood pressure 111/78 mm/Hg, respiratory rate 20/min, and oxygen saturation 99 % in ambient air. Laboratory tests revealed a total leukocyte count of 8,600/μL, a hemoglobin level of 7.3 g/dl, and a platelet count of 524,000/μL; PT, PTT, INR, serum iron, fibrinogen, ferritin, folic acid, vitamin B12, factor 13, RF, ANA, c-ANCA, p-ANCA, and indirect coombs all had normal values. No proliferation was seen in urine, throat and blood cultures. An infectious etiology was not considered. A biopsy was taken from the patient's ecchymotic skin areas with an initial diagnosis of HSP vasculitis. However, the pathology result was normal and immunofluorescence microscopy was negative for IgG, IgA, and IgM. Radiographs of the thighs showed dense, linear calcifications in the distal metaphysis and in the soft tissues surrounding the bone . Ultrasound was then performed to investigate the etiology of the swellings on knees and left wrist by using the Toshiba Aplio XG SSA-790A (Toshiba Medical Systems Corporation, Otawara, Japan) with a 12-MHz linear transducer. The ultrasound revealed a subperiosteal hypoechoic thickening that covered both distal femoral diaphyses . A further color Doppler ultrasound examination did not show vascular color fills in the subperiosteal hypoechoic thickening ( , d). These findings suggested subperiosteal heterogeneous echogenic effusion. A malignant lesion was not considered, since no color fills were found on the Doppler ultrasound. Effusion was not found in the joint spacing. An MRI using the 1.5-T Siemens Symphony system (Siemens Medical Solutions, Erlangen, Germany) was performed to confirm the diagnosis. This MRI examination showed signal increases in the T1weighted and T2-weighted images in accordance with subperiosteal hemorrhage on both distal femoral diaphyses and both iliac bones , and in the covering soft tissue and muscle structures. There were diffuse signal anomalies in the bone marrow in the distal femoral metaphyseal–diaphyseal area and in both iliac bones. Clinical and radiological findings suggested scurvy in the patient. Laboratory test results revealed that the vitamin C level was 0.06 mg/dL (reference range: 0.5– 1.8 mg/dL). A diagnosis of scurvy was confirmed and the child was started on a vitamin C-rich diet and 300 mg/day ascorbic acid treatment. On the third day of the treatment, the patient's gingival bleedings stopped,and the ecchymoses disappeared in the first week. A control ultrasound was planned for the patient 4 weeks later. The control ultrasound and radiographs showed almost total resorption of the subperiosteal hemorrhage and subperiosteal calcifications . The family was instructed with regard to proper dietary management.
