Sebastian H. Unizony, M.D., Nancy D. Kim, M.D., and Mai P. Hoang, M.D.
The New England Journal of Medicine Downloaded from nejm.org at LOS ANGELES (UCLA) on April 6, 2017. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright © 2015 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved. and the tonsils were erythematous and enlarged with crypt abscesses and a patchy exudate. There was bilateral anterior cervical lymphadenopathy. There was a pustule on the lower lip, as well as pustules with crusted centers and surrounding erythematous wheals involving the face, torso, arms, and legs. The lesions were dime-sized (approximately 18 mm in diameter) or smaller. The remainder of the examination was normal. Rapid testing of a pharyngeal specimen for streptococcal infection was negative, as was a monospot test for heterophile antibodies; the creatinine level and results of liver-function tests were normal. Other test results are shown in . Ampicillin–sulbactam, hydromorphone, viscous lidocaine, acetaminophen, ibuprofen, and morphine were administered. Blood cultures remained sterile. During the first day, the temperature rose to 39.0°C. The day after admission to the other hospital, examination by an infectious-disease consultant revealed severe exudative pharyngitis and ulcers mostly involving the upper and lower lips and anterior hard palate near the gumline. Pustular lesions mostly involved the face and back, although some were palpable on the right thigh; the palms and soles were not involved. At the request of the patient's family, he was transferred to this hospital later that day. The patient reported fevers, headaches, mild sinus congestion, myalgias in both thighs and calves, tender nodules on his shins, perianal pruritus, constipation that had lasted for 3 days, and weight loss of approximately 3.5 kg during this illness. He had a history of acne that differed from his current facial lesions, as well as " cold sores " and genital erosions that resolved spontaneously and dysphagia and occasional hematemesis for which esophagogastroduodenoscopic examina* The abbreviation ref denotes reference range. † Reference values are affected by many variables, including the patient population and the laboratory methods used. The ranges used at Massachusetts General Hospital are for adults who are not pregnant and do not have medical con‑ ditions that could affect the results. They may therefore not be appropriate for all patients.tions (performed 15 months and 4 months earlier) reportedly revealed a lower esophageal ring, esophageal erosions, and possible eosinophilic esophagitis. He had had varicella infection (chickenpox) as a child and a previous chlamydia infection. Hydrocodone reportedly caused vomiting. He lived with roommates, owned two dogs, and worked in an office; a coworker had recently had an upper respiratory tract infection. He drank alcohol and smoked marijuana. He had been sexually active with multiple partners in the past year, sometimes with unprotected intercourse. He had traveled to Hawaii many months earlier. His father had hypertension and ulcerative colitis, and his mother had diverticulitis. He was of Native American and western European ancestry. On examination, the temperature was 37.1°C, the blood pressure 144/87 mm Hg, the pulse 72 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 16 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 97% while the patient was breathing ambient air. There were erythematous ulcers on the lips and hard palate, and the tonsils had white erosions on a red base. There was submandibular, cervical, and inguinal lymphadenopathy. There were scattered pink papules and plaques involving the trunk, thighs, and buttocks and multiple raised, erythematous nodules on both shins that were tender on palpation and had no underlying fluctuance. The patient had an ulcer on the left side of the glans penis (2 to 3 mm in diameter), similar ulcers on the scrotum, and a left perirectal ulcer (1 cm in diameter) with surrounding erythema. There were no bullae, target lesions, or lesions on the palms or soles. The remainder of the examination was normal. Blood levels of glucose, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, total protein, albumin, globulin, lactate dehydrogenase, and creatine kinase were normal, as were results of renal-and liver-function tests; other test results are shown in . Blood samples were obtained for culture. Urinalysis and a chest radiograph were normal. An electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm and nonspecific T-wave abnormalities. A diagnostic procedure was performed.
cal infection), granuloma inguinale (Klebsiella granulomatis infection), lymphogranuloma venereum, and acute human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Herpes simplex virus infection classically causes orogenital ulcers, but this patient's pustular rash is not consistent with this diagnosis. Patients with gonorrhea may have fever, pharyngitis, subcutaneous nodules, and pustular rash 4,5 ; however, discrete mucous-membrane ulceration is not characteristic of gonorrhea, and this patient did not report current or recent symptoms of urethritis. Both granuloma inguinale and lymphogranuloma venereum can cause genital lesions, 2 and in rare cases, lymphogranuloma venereum causes oral ulcers; however, systemic and cutaneous involvement are typically absent in patients with granuloma inguinale, and constitutional symptoms and lesions resembling erythema nodosum are uncommon in patients with lymphogranuloma venereum. 6,7 Finally, the rash in this case is not consistent with the maculopapular rash that often develops during primary HIV infection; nevertheless, HIV infection should still be ruled out in this patient, given his sexual history, the mononucleosis-like syndrome, and the presence of oral and genital ulcers.
cers and arthritis but is not associated with genital ulcers and pustular rash. To differentiate between these possible diagnoses, numerous infectious studies were ordered; empirical acyclovir was administered because herpes simplex virus infection was also a consideration. In addition, biopsies of the mucous-membrane lesions and rash were performed.
