this time included calcium glubionate, fluconazole, lansoprazole, propranolol, and verapamil. Arterial blood gas demonstrated metabolic acidosis. Electrolyte abnormalities included hypernatremia, hypokalemia, and hyperchloremia. Renal function demonstrated disproportionate elevation of blood urea nitrogen compared with creatinine. Complete blood cell count revealed leukocytosis with a significant elevation in band forms (12%). Cultures of blood, urine, and trachea were obtained. A Clostridium difficile culture was also obtained, given her history of diarrhea. Broadspectrum antimicrobial therapy was initiated with vancomycin, meropenem, gentamicin, and micafungin. A transthoracic echocardiogram, unchanged from her baseline, showed severe biventricular hypertrophy, dynamic left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (peak left ventricular outflow tract gradient, 52 mm Hg), normal biventricular systolic function (left ventricular ejection fraction, 65.3%), and moderate pulmonary valve stenosis. She was initially resuscitated with 100 mL/kg of fluids to restore her depleted intravascular volume, as suggested by preceding diarrhea, hypernatremia, and azotemia. Her central venous pressure was measured during resuscitation and was adequate at 12 to 18 mm Hg after fluids. Despite an adequate central venous pressure she remained hypotensive, so norepinephrine was added for warm shock. We decreased metabolic demand with sedation, paralysis, mechanical ventilation, and aggressive control of fever with a cooling blanket. After transient improvement, she worsened and became refractory to 1 mg/kg per minute of norepinephrine, 0.04 U/kg per minute of vasopressin, and 20 mg/kg per minute of dopamine. MB was added for severe refractory vasoplegia and hypotension. A loading dose of 1 mg/kg was administered, followed by an infusion of 0.25 mg/kg per hour 4 hours after the loading dose, with dramatic improvement. Her systolic blood pressure (BP) increased by 33 mm Hg (40% increase), and diastolic BP increased by 20 mm Hg (46% increase) ( After the bolus of MB, BP improved significantly. Dopamine was weaned off in 6 hours and norepinephrine in 14 hours. MB was infused for a total of 25 hours. Although the BP was adequate, the clinical decision was made to discontinue MB (without weaning) before stopping vasopressin. Vasopressin was able to be discontinued 5 hours after MB was stopped. She was unparalyzed 1 day after MB was discontinued and returned to her baseline. Her infectious workup was negative. She was eventually transferred from the PICU to the chronic ventilator unit on a laptop ventilator for additional inpatient care.
