A 6-year-old boy with an unremarkable family history presented to the Pediatric Surgery Department with complaints of abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting, without fever. This was his 10th hospitalization for similar symptoms in the previous 18 months. The time between attacks ranged from a few days to a few weeks. During all episodes, laboratory workup revealed high levels of amylase in blood (up to 1440 U/L; normal, 10–100 U/L) and urine (up to 913 abstract Hereditary angioedema (HAE) may manifest with swelling of the face, extremities, and upper airways. Gastrointestinal symptoms are also common and may include abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhea. However, pancreatic involvement is rare and has been reported only in a few adults with previously diagnosed HAE. We describe a 6-year-old boy who presented with recurrent severe abdominal pain accompanied by an elevation in pancreatic enzyme levels, without subcutaneous or cutaneous angioedema. His symptoms had begun 18 months earlier, and he was hospitalized several times before the present admission with a diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. More comprehensive analysis yielded low levels of C2, C4, CH50, and C1 esterase inhibitor, establishing the diagnosis of HAE. One year after diagnosis, swelling of the extremities appeared for the first time. This is the first report of a child in whom pancreatic disease was the presenting symptom of HAE. HAE should be included in the differential diagnosis of recurrent pancreatitis in children.
PEDIATRICS Volume 137 , number 2 ,There were no pathologic signs on abdominal ultrasonography, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography. The diagnosis at each presentation was acute pancreatitis, and the patient was treated conservatively with fluids and papaverine, followed by a low-fat diet. This led to an alleviation of the symptoms accompanied by normalization of amylase and lipase levels.
At the fourth hospitalization, an abdominal ultrasound scan showed an enlarged edematous hyperechogenic pancreas, compatible with acute pancreatitis. Endoscopic ultrasound demonstrated stones in the gallbladder. Treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid was started, followed 2 months later by laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Gallstones were not found in the removed gallbladder, and the histologic findings were consistent with mild chronic cholecystitis. However, 2 months after the procedure, the patient experienced another attack with the same clinical features. At the 10th admission, given the persistence of the attacks, a broader investigation was undertaken, including blood tests for complement components: C2 was 0.6 mg/dL (normal, 1.8–3.0 mg/dL), C4 was 2.1 mg/dL (normal, 10–25 mg/ dL), and C3 was 80 mg/dL (normal, 80–180 mg/dL). There were only traces of CH50 activity. C1 esterase inhibitor (C1-INH) was <6 mg/ dL (normal, 15–35 mg/dL). These findings, together with the clinical picture, led to a diagnosis of HAE. The next 3 episodes were treated with purified C1-INH (Berinert). The child responded well, with disappearance of symptoms within minutes. Approximately 1 year after HAE was diagnosed, angioedema of the upper limb developed for the first time, in addition to abdominal pain.
