Thailand reported the first HIV infection in 1984. In a recent report in 2014, it is estimated that of the 1.1 million Thai people infected with HIV in the past 30 years, about 430,000 remain alive. 1 Eight thousand new HIV cases reported from 2014 to 2015 puts the infection rate at 22 cases per day. 2 The incidence of symptomatic vascular disease is 1% of HIV-infected patients, 3 but is related to high morbidity and mortality. HIV infections account for changing morphology and physiology of the arterial wall that causes a variety of vascular diseases, including arterial aneurysms in chest or abdomen (thoracic aortic aneurysm or abdominal aortic aneurysm
), peripheral arterial aneurysm (such as femoral, popliteal artery), and cerebrovascular aneurysm (such as carotid, vertebral artery). 4,5 Inflamed and/or infected (arteritis) blood vessels can cause a connection between arterial and venous systems, such as acquired femoral arteriovenous fistular (AVF), which can cause venous hypertension of the lower extremities. 6 In addition, resulted in hypercoagulable states leading to thrombosis in both the arterial and venous systems via a protein C and S deficiency. 7-9 Other common problems in HIV-related vascular surgery include surgical site infection (SSI); prosthesis graft infection from open bypass surgery; endovascular intervention (stenting) for treatment of peripheral artery disease (PAD); 5 aortic graft infection in AAA operation (both open aneurysmorrhaphy and endovascular aneurysm repair ); and arteriovenous bridge graft (AVBG) for hemodialysis access. 1,10-12 Recently, to control the number of HIV-infected patients, Thailand National Guidelines on HIV/AIDS Treatment and Prevention (2012) 1 revised the criteria threshold level for the antiretroviral (ARV) drug in use for white blood cells clusters of differentiation 4 (CD4), fromConsequently, ARV drugs now show a rapid increase in usage. In a regimen of protease inhibitors and some nonnucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTIs) groups, such as efavirenz (EFV), metabolic can be absorbed in the liver via the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzyme. Therefore, CYP450 decreased with the concurrent use of these drugs. Other medicines that shared metabolic absorption via the same mechanism show higher levels in bloodstream and overdose, such as ergot derivative (ergotamine), which when used to treat migraine headaches or induce uterine contraction can cause severe peripheral vasoconstriction (ergotism). 13,14 Mechanisms of ergotism causing ischemia in extremities or involve vascular supply to the brain, cause seizures or paralysis (ischemic stroke). 15 The primary treatment is discontinuation of both ergot-derivative medicines and adjunctive vasodilator drugs (prostaglandin analogue, calcium channel blocker). 16 All vascular involvement from HIV infections described above are more prevalent in Thailand. However, lack of data in diagnosis, treatment, role of surgery, and outcome persisted, so the authors reported these data to show methods of presentation, choices of investigation, decision making as related to treatment, and the outcome of HIV-related arteriopathy in lower extremities patients to initiate standard guidelines for these diseases.
One day before admission, a 40-year-old HIV-and hepatitis B virus (HBV)-infected woman reported sudden onset bilateral hand and left leg pain, including a severe headache for the previous 2 days. She usually took ergotamine tablets orally 4 times per week for 2 years, but because of severe headaches the previous 2 days, she had increased the dosage to 3 tablets per day. She was on ARV drugs, including lamivudine (300 mg once daily), tenofovir (300 mg once daily), and lopinavir/ ritonavir (LPV/r; 800 mg/200 mg per day). At the emergency department, a physical examination showed nonfixed mottling ( and B) and decreased sensation of forearm to hand, both sides with weak pulse of bilateral brachial arteries. She showed pulselessness of the radial and ulnar arteries on both sides, and a weak pulse in both her left posterior tibial and dorsalis pedis arteries. Computed tomographic angiography (CTA) of the upper extremities was performed and showed smooth abrupt narrowing of bilateral brachial arteries with faint opacification of the distal brachial and radial arteries in the delay phase for both sides . The diagnosis was acute limb ischemia Rutherford's classification IIb of both upper extremities, and acute limb ischemia Rutherford's classification I of the left leg from ergotism. Ergotamine was ceased immediately and the patient given intravenous (IV) heparin and nicardipine. Protease inhibitors were stopped. 48 hours after treatment, her clinical extremities pain and numbness improved. Skin mottling of the bilateral forearm and hand also improved with some residual numbness of the fingers. CTA of the upper extremities showed normal brachial to palmar arteries without spasm on both sides , which indicated that the vasospasms were recovering after ergot derivative cessation for 2 days. Two weeks after treatment, the pulse in her extremities was normal, with no skin mottling and normal sensation .
Four days before admission, a 48-year-old HIV-infected woman was admitted with 6Ps symptoms (pain, pulselessness, pallor, paresthesia, poikilothermia, paralysis) of the left leg. She did not have a history of claudication or rest pain in either leg. Embolectomy was performed at a rural primary care hospital, but no clot was found. Intraoperative angiogram showed abrupt occlusion of the left middle part of the superficial femoral artery (SFA) without collateral vessel, and no evidence of emboli characteristic pattern. After embolectomy, the patient's leg rapidly developed progressive ischemia. Patient was transferred to our hospital. A CTA of her lower extremities showed a left groin hematoma 3 × 2 cm without extravasation of contrast material, occlusion of left middle SFA, popliteal, tibioperoneal trunk, anterior tibial artery (ATA), dorsalis pedis artery with reconstitution at middle part of peroneal and posterior tibialartery (PTA), occlusion of right peroneal artery and segmental occlusion of right ATA and PTA, and normal regular vessel wall of aorta and iliac arteries . Echocardiogram did not show cause of emboli. Patient was admitted for IV heparinization and IV fluid hydration. Over the next 4 days after admission, rhabdomyolysis occurred (total creatine kinase level = 14 000 U/L). Amputation of left leg above knee was performed to eradicate muscle wasting product load in bloodstream. Pathologic results showed atherosclerosis of all arteries, from SFA down to triple vessel run-off arteries, with recent thrombus. In 2 days, postoperative total creatine kinase level fell to normal levels. A 35-year-old HIV-infected man with oral thrush had a workup diagnosis, which showed that his HIV infection was sexually transmitted. He exhibited lifestyle-limiting claudication (50 m) that influenced his employment for 2 months. The following month, he developed rest pain and dry gangrene in his right first toe, and worsening intermittent claudication (20 m). Four days previous to admission, he developed dry gangrene in his right second toe. Further examination showed dry skin, hair loss, calf muscle hypotrophy of the right lower extremity, with a smaller diameter than the contralateral leg. The right popliteal to pedal artery showed Doppler artery signals with an ankle pressure of 40 mm Hg, and an ankle-brachial index of 0.3. Diagnosis was CLI of right femoral-popliteal artery occlusive disease with Rutherford's classification V. Workup showed protein C deficiency (59.5%; normal range 70% to 140%). CTA of lower extremities was performed, which showed atherosclerosis of the right external iliac artery, right femoral-popliteal arteries stenoses, stenosis at tibioperoneal trunk with good single leg run-off (peroneal artery), bilateral renal artery, and celiac and superior mesenteric artery stenosis . Long-term anticoagulant (warfarin) and ARV drugs were started orally. Follow-up clinical examination of lower extremities show stable area of necrosis/ischemia of first-second toe of right foot.
A thin, 59-year-old HIV-infected man had low back pain without sciatica for 1 month, then he developed a subacute fever the week before admission. Physical examination showed high-grade fever, blood pressure 123/79 mm Hg, heart rate 110 beats/min, O 2 saturation 95%, and he appeared to suffer from cachexia with an expansile pulsatile abdominal mass without tenderness. CTA of the whole abdomen showed Infrarenal fusiform nonopacified AAA (4.5 × 5.6 cm). There was an occlusion down to the bilateral common iliac arteries (CIA). Also detected were irregular rim enhancing hypodense lesions surrounding an aneurysm, with multiple bilateral small psoasabscesses, and a right gluteal abscess (5.2 cm in diameter), reconstitution of bilateral distal CIA with multiple collateral vessels, and extensive bilateral iliocaval deep vein thrombosis (DVT) . Diagnosis was infected infrarenal AAA with aortic occlusion and multiple small psoas abscess and right gluteal abscess. Patient was admitted to intensive care unit to control blood pressure, IV heparin for treatment DVT, then switched to oral anticoagulant for 3 months. Percutaneous drainage (PCD) under ultrasound guide of right gluteal abscess was performed and showed frank greenish-yellowish pus (15 mL), Acid-fast stain (AFB) was positive, but culture for tuberculous (TB) was negative. Hemoculture was negative for all microorganism. Thus, TB aortitis with multiple small psoas abscesses was the suspected diagnosis. Anti-TB drugs were started in 2 IRZE + 4 IR regimen (isoniazid , rifampin , pyrazinamide , ethambutol
). Ciprofloxacin 400 mg IV every 12 hours, and clindamycin 600 mg IV every 8 hours for prophylaxis of secondary bacterial infection was given. Treatment for multiple small intra-abdominal abscesses for 1 month were also started, and planned to start ARV drugs after infection (abscess) subsided. One month after treatment, the patient was not feverish, so was followed up for 1 month with a whole body CTA. CTA results showed decreased size of previous fusiform dilatation of nonopacified infrarenal AAA, now seen as ectasia of nonopacified abdominal aorta without enhancing of aortic wall, size approximately 2.4 × 2.0 cm in maximal diameter (previously 4.4 × 5.6 cm). Multiple small rim enhancing lesions in the bilateral psoas muscles disappeared, with no evidence of acute DVT . The ankle pressure was 90 mm Hg on both side. ARV drugs were started after TB infection subsided.
