A 64-year-old man was referred to our hospital with a fever of unknown origin and the elevation of the biliary enzymes. Abdominal ultrasonography and computed tomography (CT) did not show any specific findings. His fever did not respond to the administration of intravenous antibiotics, but his fever subsided (but later recurred) when oral prednisolone (20 mg/day) was administered for suspected autoimmune disease. On admission, the patient exhibited pancytopenia, the elevation of serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL2R) antibody to 5,006 U/L (normal: 135-483), and the elevation of biliary enzymes. There was no evident lymphadenopathy and no abnormal accumulation of 18Ffluorodeoxyglucose on positron emission tomography (PET)/ CT, but abdominal CT revealed splenomegaly. IVL was susDepartment of Medicine and Molecular Science, Gunma University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan, Department of Endoscopy and Endoscopic Surgery, Gunma University Hospital, Japan, Department of Medicine and Clinical Science, Gunma University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan and Department of Pathology, Gunma University Hospital, Japan Received for publication Correspondence to Dr. Yasuyuki Shimoyama, yshimoyama@gunma-u.ac.jppected due to the fever of unknown origin and the elevation of the patient's interleukin 2 receptor (IL2R) level without obvious lymphadenopathy. Liver and bone marrow biopsies were therefore performed simultaneously because of the importance of a rapid diagnosis due to the poor prognosis. In the liver biopsy specimen, there was considerable variation in the cells of the sinusoids , revealing the effect of prednisolone. Asian variant IVL (6) was considered possible, due to the presence of CD20-positive large B lymphocytes and the observation of hemophagocytosis in both the liver  and the bone marrow biopsy specimens . Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed to investigate the patient's anemia. We obtained 6 random biopsy specimens, including 1 specimen of the patient's apparently normal duodenal mucosa , 1 specimen of reddened duodenal mucosa , 2 specimens of reddened gastric mucosa , 1 specimen of apparently normal gastric mucosa , and 1 specimen of reddened anastomotic mucosa . All 6 of the biopsy specimens revealed vascular infiltration by CD20-positive atypical lymphocytes ( , D), confirming the diagnosis of IVL. JH rearrangement was not investigated because IVL was diagnosed by pathological examination. Chemotherapy was initiated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone. Rituximab was added from the second course and remission was achieved after 8 courses. However, the disease recurred and the patient died 40 months after the initial diagnosis.
A 64-year-old woman was admitted with a fever of 2-3 weeks in duration and a weight loss of 15 kg over 2 months. Her serum level of sIL2R antibody was found to be elevated to 1,950 U/L on admission. There was no detectable lymphadenopathy, no abnormal accumulation on PET/ CT, and no lymphadenopathy or splenomegaly on abdominal CT. Malignant lymphoma was suspected because the patient had a fever of unknown origin and an increase of sIL2R without obvious lymphadenopathy. A bone marrow biopsy revealed a large number of CD20-positive lymphocytes consistent with B cell lymphoma, suggesting IVL. Upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy was performed to investigate the presence of fecal occult blood, revealing multiple polyploid lesions resembling submucosal tumors in the duodenum ( , B) and in the gastric antrum , as well as an antral ulcer . Multiple endoscopic biopsy specimens were obtained, including specimens from the lesions and specimens of the apparently normal mucosa in the duodenum ( , B), gastric body , and esophagus . Eleven out of the 12 specimens had CD-20 positive atypical lymphocytes in the capillaries , including specimens from the gastric ulcer and the submucosal duodenal lesions, as well as the specimens of the apparently normal mucosa (except for the lower esophageal specimen; , white arrow). A random skin biopsy also showed CD20-positive atypical lymphocytes infiltrating the blood vessels, confirming the diagnosis of IVL. JH rearrangement was not investigated in case 2 because IVL was diagnosed by the pathologic findings. We performed 6 courses of chemotherapy with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone. The patient is currently alive at 12 months after the initiation of chemotherapy.
