History and Examination A previously healthy 12-year-old boy presented with generalized tonic-clonic seizures. On admission, the patient complained of a tingling sensation on his right thigh, which was gradually improved. A neurological examination and laboratory tests were unremarkable. A T1 hypointense and T2 hyperintense mass, approximately 2.4 cm in size, with a poorly defined margin was identified in the right posterolateral aspect of the lower medulla on brain MRI ( and B). The mass showed increased water diffusion on the apparent diffusion coefficient map, and no hypointense signals suggesting hemorrhage, neovascularity, or dilated vessels on susceptibility-weighted imaging. Single-voxel proton MR point-resolved spectroscopy obtained in the mass revealed no identifiable metabolites. Two MRI techniques, including ASL and DCE imaging, were performed to evaluate tumor vascularity and vascular permeability in this patient. However, DSC imaging was not performed, because low diagnostic yield resulting from pronounced artifacts and geometrical distortion involving the small medullary lesion was anticipated. Noncontrast perfusion imaging using a pseudo-continuous ASL method was acquired with a single-shot gradient-echo echo-planar imaging (EPI) technique (labeling duration 1650 msec, post-label delay 1700 msec, TR/TE 4130/14 msec, flip angle 90°, number of signal averages 1, SENSE 2.5, FOV 220 × 220 mm, matrix 90 × 90 pixels, slice thickness 6 mm, number of slices 19, acquisition time 4 minutes 15 seconds). The perfusion images, generated by subtracting the labeled image from the nonlabeled image at each slice position, showed well-defined round hyperintensity in the medullary lesion comparable to the signal intensities of the internal carotid arteries, indicating highly increased blood flow inthe tumor . The relative tumor blood flow (rTBF) ratio (relative to the contralateral normal-appearing cortical gray matter) of the tumor from ASL imaging was approximately 11.8. A standard dose (0.1 mmol/kg) of gadoterate meglumine (Dotarem, Guerbet) was injected intravenously at an injection rate of 3 ml/sec for postcontrast MRI. DCE imaging was acquired with a T1-weighted 3D gradient-echo sequence (TR/TE 15/3 msec, flip angle 15°, number of signal averages 1, FOV 220 × 220 mm, matrix 224 × 224 pixels, slice thickness 6 mm, number of slices 11, number of dynamic phases 60, acquisition time 3 minutes). The same pulse sequence with a flip angle of 5° was performed immediately before the administration of contrast agent to obtain T1 mapping. As in ASL imaging, DCE imaging and time-intensity curve analysis also demonstrated vascular perfusion in the enhancing lesion comparable to those of the vertebral arteries ( and E). DCE-MRI parameters, including Ktrans, Kep, Ve, and Vp values measured in the enhancing lesion, were-0.9 ± 1.8 min-1 , 0.6 ± 1.4 min-1 ,-0.5 ± 0.9 (arbitrary unit), and 1.3 ± 0.9 (arbitrary unit), respectively . An intense nodular enhancement approximately 0.8 cm in size was shown in the mass lesion on contrast-enhanced T1-weighted MRI . The T1-and T2-prolonged area outside the nodular enhancement was regarded as peritumoral edema or a nonenhancing portion of the tumor. Based on the MRI findings, a low-grade tumor such as a hemangioblastoma, pilocytic astrocytoma, oligodendroglioma, or ganglioglioma was suggested. Among the differential diagnoses, hemangioblastoma was the most probable because the mass showed highly increased perfusion and low vascular permeability on ASL and DCE imaging. On the other hand, dilated serpentine feeding arteries, another characteristic MRI finding of hemangioblastoma, were not demonstrated.
