In June 2008, a 57-year-old woman with non-insulindependent diabetes mellitus was referred to our hospital for aggravation of a cutaneous ulcer in the right heel with concurrent osteomyelitis. She had been treated with oral antibiotics and local wound care for one year. She was mentally retarded since childhood and had received oral medication for diabetes mellitus since the age of 52 years. Physical examination revealed a wound (3x3 cm) on the sole of the hind foot exposing the calcaneus ( . There was purulent drainage, necrotic debris, and scarred soft tissue and pocket formation (10 cm in diameter). The patient was afebrile. Blood tests revealed elevated levels of inflammatory markers, including white blood cell count of 9500/µl and a C-reactive protein level of 13.6 mg/dl. Her blood glucose level was 390 mg/dl and haemoglobin A1C score was 12.9%, indicating poor glycaemic control. Culture of the sinus discharge grew Proteus mirabilis, which is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium. Radiographs showed an avulsion-fracture at the Achilles tendon insertion and irregular erosion of the cortex of the calcaneus (
. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed diffuse bone marrow oedema in two-thirds of the calcaneus and soft-tissue oedema of the heel pad with low-signal intensity on T1weighted image and high-signal intensity on short tau inversion recovery image ( . The patient was diagnosed with chronic osteomyelitis of the right calcaneus. Systemic daily administration of 1.5 g of imipenem/cilastatin was initiated, together with local irrigation and debridement, and intensive insulin therapy for glycaemic control. Seven days later, the inflammation subsided and skin incision was made longitudinally on the sole of the right hindfoot along the draining wound. The infected bone and soft tissues, sequestrum, and abnormal granulation were radically debrided. The free-floating bone fragment at the Achilles tendon insertion was removed together with some portion of the tendon. Cancellous bone was debrided until raw bleeding was noted, but the cortical shell of the calcaneus was retained to maintain its weight-bearing function. The osseous defect was then filled with gentamycin-impregnated calcium phosphate cement (BIOPEX-R; Pentax, Tokyo, Japan). Gentamycin (40 mg) was mixed with 12 g of the powder component of BIOPEX and then further mixed with the solvent. The wound was closed with a negative suction drain placed inside; the drain was removed after 5 days. Systemic daily administration of 1.5 g of imipenem/cilastatin was continued for 12 days. On day 12, the white blood cell count was 5900 /µl and the C-reactive protein level was 0.1 mg/ dl. Oral antibiotics were then stopped. At the 1.5-year follow-up, there was no evidence of recurrence, and the patient could walk without any assistance.
