Ethical approval of the study protocol was obtained from the Institutional Review Board of Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, Thailand (HE552063). The proband was a 43-year-old Thai male who presented at Srinagarind Hospital, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, Thailand. Physical examination revealed moderate pallor and no jaundice, with visible superficial abdominal vein and bilateral leg edema. Doppler ultrasound demonstrated deep vein thrombosis in both legs. Computed tomography of the abdomen showed clots within bilateral external iliac veins and the lower segment of the inferior vena cava (IVC). No history of hypercoagulability was noted. He was treated with oral vitamin K antagonist therapy with a therapeutic target international normalized ratio (INR) of 2.0–3.0. EDTA anti-coagulated blood specimens were obtained from the proband and his family members . summarizes the hematological findings of the proband (II-1) and his family members including his father (I-1), his wife (II-2), his daughter (III-1) and his son (III-2). Peripheral blood film of the proband revealed anisopoikilocytosis and hypochromia with target cells. The complete blood count (CBC) showed Hb 7.9 g/dL,Based on these findings, he was diagnosed as having a Hb E-b +-thal disease, complicated by IVC thrombosis. He was successfully treated with oral vitamin K antagonist therapy and blood transfusions. b-Thalassemia and Hb E mutations were identified using allele-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) as previously described (7). Identifications of a 0-thal and a +-thal were routinely performed in our laboratory using PCR methods (8). The DNA analyses of the proband yielded negative results for known b-thal mutations found in Thailand but identified a heterozygosity for the a +-thal (Àa 3.7 rightward deletion). Further DNA sequencing revealed a C4T mutation at nucleotide À90 within the CACCC motif of the b-globin gene promoter in trans to the b E mutation , a b +-thal gene previously unreported in the Thai population. The proband was therefore a b-TI patient with Hb E-b +-thal disease and a +-thal. Pedigree analysis identified that his father and his wife were carriers of Hb E. His daughter was a homozygote for Hb E with a +-thal, whereas his son was a b +-thal carrier with a +-thal. In order to provide a simple method for screening of the b À90(C4T) mutation, allele-specific PCR was developed in-house and evaluated as shown in . The 578 bp internal control fragment was amplified on a G g-globin gene promoter using primer g4 (5 0 , this À90 b +-thal mutation could be confirmed in the proband and his son using our developed allele-specific PCR assay. The b-globin gene haplotype including seven polymorphic restriction sites within the b-globin gene cluster ("-HincII, G g-HindIII, A g-HindIII, b-HincII, 3 0 b-HincII, b-AvaII and 3 0 b-BamHI) was determined using PCR and restriction digestions as described previously (9). This analysis and segregation in the family  demonstrated that this Thai b +-thal gene was linked to the b haplotype of the case as well as knowledge of the genotypephenotype relationship had important implications for providing optimal management to prevent such complications. Of additional interest is the finding of a relatively rare and previously undescribed trait in the Thai population, theb +-thal allele À90 with a C4T transition within the proximal CACCC box of the b-globin gene. This CACCC motif is known to be an erythroid-specific binding site of the erythroid Krüppel-like factor (EKLF). The EKLF is a zinc-finger transcription factor that plays critical roles in erythropoiesis including regulating b-like globin gene switching. This À90 mutation in the proximal CACCC/EKLF binding site disrupts the binding and trans-activation of EKLF to the mutant promoter leading to a b +-thal phenotype (12). The mutation was originally found in a Portuguese subject and was subsequently recognized as a rare
