A newborn female was referred to our hospital at six hours of life with complaints of respiratory difficulty since birth, and enlarged left thigh with vascular malformation. She was born by caesarian section at 36 weeks gestation, and cried immediately after birth. Her weight was 3.5 kg. Mother had infrequent antenatal check-up and an unremarkable medical history. At admission, she had tachycardia, tachypnea, grunting, prolonged capillary refill time, hypoxia (SpO 2 85% on oxygen by prongs) and feeble pulses. Systemic examination revealed bilateral crepitations, grade III systolic murmur at upper right sternal border, and a palpable liver (2.5 cm). There was a large vascular malformation on the left thigh with splitting of overlying skin . There was no other anomaly or dysmorphism. Investigations were suggestive of anemia (hemoglobin 7.5 g/dL) and severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count: 8×10 9 /L). Total leucocyte count (13.3 ×10 9 /L), serum electrolytes and serum calcium were normal; C-reactive protein was negative. She received intravenous antibiotics, packed red cells, platelet concentrates and fresh frozen plasma. Intravenous furosemide was administered in view of congestive heart failure. By 12 hours of life, infant's condition remained critical, and she required mechanical ventilation. X-ray chest showed cardiomegaly (CT ratio 0.7), and liver was palpable (3 cm below costal margin). Congestive cardiac failure further worsened, requiring digitalization and inotrope support to maintain perfusion. Echocardio-graphy revealed dilated right atrium, right ventricle and major pulmonary artery, mild to moderate TR, small ASD, and PDA. Doppler ultrasound of the enlarged left lower limb showed large arterio-venous malformation from left inguinal region including labia, extending upto foot. Computed tomography (CT) angiography of the affected left thigh revealed tufts of vessels in subcutaneous planes arising from superficial femoral artery, with enhancing soft tissue component and large draining veins sugges-tive of large arterio-venous malformation . Urinary bladder was also grossly distended with bilateral hydronephrosis. Interventional radiologist suggested angio-embolization of the affected arterio-venous malformations, but the parents refused the procedure. Steroids were not administered because of fulminant sepsis. Child's condition worsened and coagulation profile deteriorated further. She developed pulmonary hemorrhage and died on day four of life due to severe
