A 51-year-old woman was diagnosed with IgA-k MM in 2004. At this time, she presented with symptomatic myeloma-related bone lesions, and a bone marrow aspirate confirmed the presence of 33% PCs. TheDefinition Soft-tissue plasmacytoma or PC infiltration of an anatomical site distant from the bone marrow (eg, strict extramedullary disease as defined in ) IncidenceFor personal use only. on April 6, 2017. by guest www.bloodjournal.org From International Scoring System (ISS) score was low (I), and a fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis did not reveal any adverse cytogenetic factors (t translocation, 17p deletion, and t translocation). The first line of therapy consisted of 4 cycles of vincristine-adriamycin-dexamethasone followed by high-dose melphalan/ASCT. The patient achieved a complete remission (CR) after the completion of therapy, but the disease relapsed only 6 months after transplantation. At this time, the patient was treated with a regimen consisting of bortezomibthalidomide-dexamethasone. During the fifth cycle of bortezomibthalidomide-dexamethasone, she developed progressive ataxia, and an MRI scan revealed a paramedian occipital lesion (3.6 3 2 cm), as well as multiple posterior lesions of the medulla from C2 to T6 . A CSF analysis revealed the presence of 30 leukocytes per mm 3 , 80% of which were clonal PCs. At the same time, the percentage of bone marrow PCs was ,5%, and no M-component was present in serum or urine. Therefore, we arrived at the diagnosis of a relapsed CNS EMM. The patient then started lenalidomide (25 mg/d, days 1-21) plus high-dose dexamethasone (40 mg/d, days 1-4; days 15-18) (Len-Dex) therapy in combination with cranial irradiation (30 grays) plus intrathecal (IT) injections of methotrexate (15 mg), cytarabine (40 mg), and hydrocortisone (20 mg) until the disappearance of PCs from the CSF (5 IT injections total). The clinical evolution was favorable with the disappearance of neurologic symptoms and the disappearance of both MRI lesions and CSF abnormalities. The patient continued to receive Len-Dex therapy, but the disease recurred after cycle 12 with the same CNS involvement. At that point, treatment was discontinued, and the patient died 3 weeks later.
