To intervene or not? A man with multidrug-resistant hypertension, endovascular abdominal aneurysm repair, bilateral renal artery stenosis and end-stage renal disease salvaged with renal artery stentingof Nephrology, Hippokration Hospital, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; b Department of General and Vascular Surgery, Papageorgiou General Hospital, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; c Department of Surgery, University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire, Coventry, UK; d Department of Nephrology, Papageorgiou General Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece ABSTRACT A 69-year-old man visited our outpatient clinic of hypertensive nephropathy for uncontrolled, multidrugresistant, secondary hypertension. His home blood pressure (BP) had persisted in a range of 170–190/ 90–110 mmHg over the past few years, despite different drug combinations. Over the previous months he had been receiving long-acting nifedipine (30 mg Â 2), carvedilol (12.5 mg Â 2), doxazosin (4 mg Â 2), clonidine (0.150 mg Â 3) and furosemide (40 mg Â 2) (aortic aneurysm, bilateral renal artery stenosis and CKD with an initial creatinine value of 194 mmol/l . He was initially treated with EVAR with suprarenal fixation, and simultaneous balloon angioplasty and stenting of the left renal artery. The patient also reported coronary heart disease treated with transdermal glyceryl trinitrate (5 mg Â 1), diastolic heart failure, both diagnosed over the past 2 years, and hyperlipidaemia treated with atorvastatin (20 mg Â 1) and fenofibrate (200 mg Â 1). An episode of gastrointestinal bleeding 7 years ago due to multiple intestine angiodysplasiae was the reason for converting his antiplatelet clopidogrel treatment to dipyridamole (75 mg Â 1). The patient was a heavy smoker, with an average of 40 cigarettes over the past 45 years. Since receiving the diagnosis of CKD, the patient had undergone routine nephrology follow-up, with progressive deterioration of renal function. He presented a renal scintigraphy, performed 5 years ago, showing a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) calculated with the Gates method of 45 ml/min, distributed in favour of the left kidney (86%), with the right kidney appearing smaller with severely impaired blood flow and function. Renal ultrasound also suggested reduced size and cortical thinning of the right kidney, with simple cysts on both kidneys. The patient reported no follow-up of his EVAR with computed tomography (CT)–angiography, owing to his treating nephrologist fearing a deterioration in renal function. On his first evaluation, the patient had a weight of 91 kg, height of 1.76 m and body mass index of 29.4 kg/m 2 , with preserved muscle mass. Office BP was 174/96 mmHg and pulse rate 82 beats/min, without orthostatic hypotension. Examination of the heart revealed a systolic murmur, whereas lung auscultation was normal. The abdomen was tender with no evidence of hepatomegaly, splenomegaly or systolic bruits over the umbilicus. Peripheral pulses were normal but there was Arrows indicate continuation of the previous treatment; Â 1: once daily; Â 2: twice daily; Â 3: three times daily.
). A new renal scintigraphy showed complete loss of perfusion of the right kidney and severe reduction of perfusion and function of the left kidney, with a calculated GFR of 14 ml/min. A triplex ultrasonography showed the treated aneurysm to be in a stable condition, and confirmed the absence of flow in the right kidney and reduced flow in the left kidney, but was unable to uncover the relapsed renal artery stenosis in the left kidney. An extensive consultation with the vascular surgeons resulted in focusing on BP reduction with modification of antihypertensive treatment, owing to the technical difficulties involved in any procedure, with repeat assessment in 4 months. Over the following 2 months, careful adjustments were made to the patient's antihypertensive treatment, aiming to gradually reduce BP. A renin–angiotensin system blocker was clearly contraindicated. Furosemide, nifedipine and carvedilol were increased to a total daily dose of 120 mg, 150 mg and 37.5 mg, respectively. He also started on tamsulosin (0.4 mgAt the 4 month visit, the patient reported another hospitalization due to an acute ischaemic stroke, starting with the acute onset of hemiparesis, dysarthria and diplopia. A magnetic resonance imaging brain scan revealed multiple ischaemic lesions, and therapy with low-molecular-weight heparin and acetylsalicylic acid (100 mg Â 1) was started. Triplex ultrasonography of the carotid arteries revealed 50% stenosis bilaterally. At 4 days, only diplopia persisted, which fully reversed within 20 days. His BP and renal function were unchanged during hospitalization. At his follow-up appointment, his home BP levels averaged 140–150/ 80–95 mmHg but his creatinine and urea nitrogen values reached 442 mmol/l and 23.7 mmol/l, respectively, reflecting an eGFR of 12.3 ml/min/1.73 m 2. On this basis, we had a new consultation with the vascular surgery team and decided that an intervention coupled with three haemodialysis sessions to remove contrast media was justified as an attempt to rescue the renal function. The patient was fully informed andconsented. Under local anaesthesia, an intraoperative angiography revealed relapse of the stenosis at the proximal left renal artery, where the previous stent had been placed . A renal double curve guiding catheter was inserted, after a challenging procedure, owing to the suprarenal fixation of the aortic endograft, which impeded the direct intraluminal access. A premounted balloon-expandable stent was deployed internally to the pre-existing one, and dilatations with balloons were performed before and after its placement. A non-tunnelled dual-lumen central venous catheter was also placed in the left femoral vein and three daily haemodialysis sessions were performed to reduce the risk of nephrotoxicity from the contrast medium. Postoperatively, kidney function rapidly improved and creatinine levels dropped by 175 mmol/L within 24 h. Similarly, a significant improvement in BP occurred during the first day, with mean values of 120–150/80– 90 mmHg coupled with orthostatic hypotension during the first 3 days, despite the interruption of furosemide, clonidine and doxazosin, and reduction of nifedipine and carvedilol to 60 mg and 25 mg per day, respectively . Double antiplatelet therapy was started with acetylsalicylic acid (100 mg Â 1) and clopidogrel (75 mg Â 1). On the fourth postoperative day, the patient was transferred to our department for polyuria and adjustment of pharmacological therapy, as orthostatic hypotension persisted. At this point, creatinine (283 mmol/l) and urea nitrogen levels (15.8 mmol/l) remained stable without dialysis, reflecting an eGFR of 20.6 ml/min/1.73 m 2 , while creatinine clearance was 36.5 ml/min/1.73 m 2. As expected, there was an increase in protein urine excretion, with a total amount of 4.4 g/24 h. The patient was discharged at 8 days postoperatively with stable renal function and BP levels of 120–130/70–80 mmHg with amlodipine (10 mg Â 1) and carvedilol (12.5 mg Â 2). Approximately 7 months after his surgery, the patient's renal function has further improved, with creatinine and urea nitrogen values of 265 mmol/l and 15 mmol/l, respectively (eGFR ¼ 22.2 ml/min/1.73 m 2 ). His BP remains well controlled with gradual additions of tamsulosin 0.4 mg and doxazosin 4 mg daily. His haemoglobin level is constant at 119 g/l, and no episodes of intestinal blood loss have been reported under the double antiplatelet therapy.
