A 19-year-old female patient admitted to our hospital with a history of pain and swelling on the right side of her neck for the previous three days. Her past medical history was questioned; she was not a current or past smoker, was negative for alcohol abuse, she was not using thrombogenic drugs (such as oral contraceptives) and she had no history of trauma. Also, she was not pregnant. The blood pressure was found to be 132/58 mmHg and the heart rate was 84 bpm with a sinus rhythm. In the physical examination of the patient at the first presentation, inspection of the right side of the neck revealed a mass of 3X3 cm, without signs of infection and erythema, but a painful palpation . The rest of the physical examination was normal. There was not any pathological finding in her ECG (Electrocardiography) and chest radiography. Also, her hemogram, clotting time, C-reactive protein (CRP) and sedimentation rate were found normal. Ultrasonography was performed to the neck; the right internal jugular vein was dilated and a thrombus image was seen limited to only this region, consistent with a diagnosis of internal jugular venous thrombosis . Trans-esophageal echocardiography was performed to evaluate if there was an accompanying intracardiac thrombus formation. There was no intracardiac thrombus and it was seen, localized to only the right internal jugular vein, withInternal jugular vein thrombosis is a rarely seen condition which may be due to infection or neoplastic, thrombophilic, traumatic or iatrogenic causes. If the thrombosis in the jugular vein leads to pulmonary embolism, septic emboli or atrial or dural sinus thrombosis, it may be life-threatening. We report a successfully treated case of a 19-year-old female patient presenting with swelling and neck pain who was diagnosed with a stepwise approach of this rare condition.computed tomography (CT) . Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) did not provide any additional data about the underlying etiology of the thrombus . The patient was examined by the rheumatology and hematology departments and further laboratory tests, such as prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, antithrombin III, protein C, protein S, lipoprotein A, anticardiolipin antibodies, the level of immunoglobulin G (IgG), lupus anticoagulant, cancer screening tests, rheumatoid factor, CD55, CD59, sitometric tests, autoantibodies, cryoglobulins and plasma homocysteine were performed. All of the above laboratory work-up resulted in either normal or negative findings, ruling out any possible connective tissue disease, malignancy or hereditary thrombophilic disorder. Idiopathic thrombosis was confirmed as a diagnosis after excluding the possible causes of this condition. The patient was immediately treated with anticoagulation therapy, according to the current guidelines. 1,2 Subcutaneous, weight-adjusted enoxaparin dosage was followed by oral warfarin treatment, titrated according to the effective international normalized ratio (INR) range. After 6 months of anticoagulation treatment with warfarin, the control ultrasonographic examination revealed no signs of previous thrombus inside the jugular vein lumen. After this result, being the first
