A premature male weighing 2065 g was born by vaginal delivery at 33 weeks of gestational age after an uneventful pregnancy in a remote rural hospital. No significant pregnancy complications were noted in the antenatal period. The baby had Apgar scores of 7 and 8 at 1 and 5 minutes, respectively. Mild respiratory distress necessitated continuous positive airway pressure for a few hours after birth. There was no history of umbilical catheterization. He was transferred within the first few days of life to the postnatal ward focusing on feeding and growth. On day 10 of life, he had sudden apneic spells with lethargy, acute cyanosis, poor perfusion, and poor respiratory effort. The heart rate was 60 to 70 beats/minute with oxygen saturation (SpO 2 ) 60% to 65% (both pre-and postductal). Bag-mask ventilation with 100% fraction of inspired oxygen (FIO 2 ) was commenced, and normal saline boluses were given in an attempt to improve the poor perfusion. There was no improvement in oxygenation; hence the baby was intubated and) infusion and then, based on the response, to wean ventilation and FIO 2 to 21%. With this strategy, the patient's hemodynamics and gas exchange were stabilized (achieving oxygen saturations between 88% and 95%) before 700-km air transport to our tertiary center. Based on the clinical presentation, congenital heart disease with ductal-dependent pulmonary blood flow was suspected, resulting in direct transport to the cardiac critical care unit. Urgent bedside transthoracic twodimensional echocardiography revealed a structurally normal heart with a patent ductus arteriosus shunting left to right. A large echogenic mass ( was seen in the main pulmonary artery occluding ∼50% of the lumen and extending into the right and left pulmonary artery with almost complete occlusion on the right. The right ventricle was dilated, with the intraventricular septum bowing into the left ventricle. There was a patent foramen ovale with right-to-left shunting. Pertinent findings on initial laboratory investigations showed thrombocytopenia (platelets 54 000/mL), but normal coagulation studies (prothrombin time, international normalized ratio, and activated partial thromboplastin time). D-dimer test was positive (2.32 µg/mL). There was no known family history of thrombophilia. An urgent contrasted computerized tomography scan demonstrated a large filling defect consistent with a large saddle PTE in the distal main and both branches of the pulmonary arteries (
. An ultrasound Doppler screen for any other sites of venous obstruction did not reveal any evidence of thrombosis. Baseline cranial ultrasound and neuroimaging showed a small intraparenchymal hemorrhage in the left parietal lobe.
The risks of thrombolysis and surgical embolectomy were initially believed to be significant in light of the patient's gestational age and weight. As a result, anticoagulation therapy with unfractionated heparin infusion was initiated. PGE 1 infusion was continued. Three hours after the initiation of heparin infusion, the patient had hemodynamic instability with profound desaturations, loss of end-tidal carbon dioxide readings, bradycardia, and hypotension. He was resuscitated with normal saline boluses and low-dose epinephrine and started with dopamine and epinephrine infusions for inotropic support. The neonate was then urgently taken to the operating room for surgical embolectomy.
A median sternotomy approach was performed, and cardiopulmonary bypass was established through cannulation of the ascending aorta and right atrial appendage. The ductus arteriosus was ligated, and a transverse arteriotomy of the proximal main pulmonary artery revealed an organized thrombus, which was retrieved as a single piece. The saddle thrombus formed a cast of the bifurcating pulmonary vessels (
. The distal pulmonary arteries appeared completely patent without residual thrombus. The patient was separated uneventfully from cardiopulmonary bypass. The intraoperative echocardiogram demonstrated good biventricular
