A 15-year-old female patient was admitted with complaints of fatigue and abdominal pain in the last three months. Physical examination revealed hepatosplenomegaly and abdominal distension, abdominal ultrasound and computerized tomography scanning revealed ascites, hepatosplenomegaly, and hepatic vein thrombosis, and Doppler ultrasonography revealed obstruction of the middle and left hepatic veins. The thrombus was reaching into the inferior vena cava . The parents were first cousin marriages. Complete blood count revealed increased platelet count (1300 Â 10 9 /l) with normal haemoglobin and leukocyte counts. Platelets were abundant and clustered in the peripheral blood smear. The patient possessed a persistently elevated platelet count, ranging between 1000 and 1400 Â 10 9 /l, without any evidence of reactive/secondary thrombocytosis, such as infections, medicine, autoimmune disorders, neoplasms, trauma, surgery or haematological disorders such as iron-deficient anaemia, or chronic haemolytic situations. Thrombophilia screening was normal for the following: Factor V Leiden (rs6025), Factor II G20210A mutation (rs1799963), anticardiolipin antibodies, lupus anticoagulants, anti-beta-2 microglobulin antibody, Factor VIII activity (70%), Factor IX activity (95%), haemoglobin electrophoresis, homocysteine levels, serum lipids, protein C, protein S and antithrombin. Prothrombin time (PT) was elevated (16.1sn), the international normalised ratio was 1.6, and activated partial thromboplastin time was normal (34sn). In vitro correction of PT was observed in mixing tests, following a 50:50 mix with normal plasma. Platelet aphaeresis was applied to acutely reduce the platelet count. Low-molecular-weight heparin (enoxaparin,convenient for intervention. Thrombolytic therapy could not be given because of bleeding risk, including elevated PT value and possible diagnosis of acquired Von Willebrand disease (VWD). Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy examinations showed trilineage haematopoiesis, with increased number and clusters of megakaryocytes. The megakaryocyte morphology was normal. Thus, the patient was diagnosed with ET. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved in this case of ET, we investigated candidate gene alterations. BCR-ABL, JAK2 V617F, and CALR mutations were negative. We then analysed codon 515 of the Mpl gene. Quantitative PCR was performed using a commercial kit (Ipsogen Mpl W515L/K MutaScreen Kit, Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) following genomic DNA isolation from peripheral blood (HibriGen R&D, Istanbul, Turkey). The patient, but not her parents, was found to have the Mpl W515K mutation (Figures 2 and 3). The presence of the mutation was confirmed by the Sanger sequencing method. The history of thrombosis and thrombocytosis was not established in the other family members of the patient. Acquired VWD was ruled out due to normal levels of Von Willebrand factor, factor VIII and ristocetin cofactor activities. The patient who presented with BCS was diagnosed as ET with the Mpl W515K mutation. Hydroxyurea therapy at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day was started. After 10 days, the enoxaparin dose was reduced to a single daily dose (1 mg/kg/day) as maintenance anticoagulation. The patient underwent liver transplantation at the end of the third month of treatment because of persistent hepatic impairment, after which enoxaparin was replaced with warfarin. The platelet count of the patient decreased (ranging between 300 and 600 Â 10 9 /l). The patient is in stable clinical condition with warfarin and hydroxyurea treatments. The written informed consent was obtained from the patient and her parents.
