A 67-year-old woman was first admitted to our hospital to undergo treatment for CP three years ago. She did not have a drinking habit, but was a smoker. She had no family history of gastrointestinal disease. Many pancreatic stones were found in the pancreas parenchyma and within the pancreatic ducts. The pancreatic stones were treated with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (ERP), but few of the stones were removed because of stenosis and bending of the main pancreatic duct (MPD). The stenotic portions were dilated with a balloon and a catheter, followed by placement of a 7-French (Fr) plastic stent, which was exchanged every three months. At the fifth stent exchange, the plastic stent was removed because the stenosis of the pancreas head and the dilation downstream were judged to be relatively improved. Three weeks later, the patient experienced upper quadrant pain and was hospitalized. Multiple protease inhibitors and a histamine H2-receptor antagonist were administered for a long period. In addition, the patient had been taking loxoprofen sodium for low back pain for more than ten years.On examination, her temperature was 36.1°C, heart rate was 80 beats per minute, blood pressure was 129/68 mmHg, and her respiratory rate was 16 breaths per minute. Spontaneous and pressure pain were observed in the epigastric region. The laboratory test results included leukocytosis (9.93×10 3 / μL, neutrophils 70.8%) with an elevated C-reactive protein level (9.90 mg/dL). The pancreatic enzyme levels were not elevated. She was negative for anti-HP antibodies. The serum gastrin level was normal. Based on a computed tomography (CT) study performed on the day of admission, there were no evident changes in the patient's acute pancreatitis . The pancreatic stones had not changed in size or position compared with the observations of the CT scans taken two months earlier. No stones or sludge were observed within the bile ducts. The cause of the patient's abdominal pain was unknown. She was managed by fasting. On the third day, esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) revealed a large duodenal ulcer with thick fur on the inferior duodenal angle , which had not been seen on ERP two months prior  and was compatible with the cause of the patient's abdominal pain. The loxoprofen was discontinued and a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) was added to her usual drug regimen. A histological examination of the ulcer excluded neoplasms and chronic inflammatory diseases. ERP was performed six days after the EGD. Fasting with PPI administration improved the duodenal ulcer. After an injection of contrast media into the MPD, the dilated branch duct filled with pancreatic stones was observed , with results consistent with those observed two months prior . Delicate manipulation of the guide wire into the branch duct revealed a fistula between the branch duct and the duodenal ulcer ( , D). The fistula was thought to have been induced by hypertension of the branch duct. As the stricture of the pancreas head had caused ductal hypertension downstream, including in the branch duct, a 7-Fr plastic stent was inserted into the MPD. Fortunately, the patient's statusgradually improved. After discharge from the hospital, the patient has remained symptom-free, with her duodenal ulcer improving at present ( , 1 month after stenting).
