A healthy 26-year-old African-American female presented to the first surgeon's clinic in May 2011 for breast augmentation. Her medical and surgical history was only notable for asthma, for which she was not on any medications. The patient denied a history of VTE or cancer or any recent immobility, trauma, surgery, pregnancy, or miscarriages. She also denied taking any medications or contraceptives, both on the patient intake form as well as in the patient interview. She reported no drug allergies or any history of smoking, alcohol, or illicit drug use. She reported no family history of any diseases or hypercoagulation disorders. There were no clinical abnormalities on physical examination. The patient had a pre-treatment history and physical examination and pre-treatment clearance by her primary care doctor, as well as pre-treatment labs [complete blood count (CBC), Chem-7, prothrombin time/ partial thromboplastin time (PT/PTT), urine pregnancy test, and EKG] that were all normal. She was scheduled for a bilateral breast augmentation. Given the patient's absence of known risk factors for DVT, she was assessed as moderate risk for DVT because of the 1 hour surgery planned, and intermittent pneumatic compression stockings were used for DVT prophylaxis. She underwent placement of bilateral, subglandular, smooth, round-profile silicone gel implants (286 cc Allergan style 15) under general anesthesia. The surgery was uneventful. The patient was seen on postoperative day 2 and was doing well and had no complaints. On postoperative day 12, the patient contacted the office because of right-sided chest pain. The patient was brought back to the clinic for immediate evaluation. The patient did report a history of rightsided calf pain that presented on postoperative day 2 and spontaneously resolved two days later. She now described deep right-sided chest pain, which worsened with full inspiration. Her vital signs were a pulse of 100, respiratory rate of 20%, and 100% saturation on room air on pulse oximetry. She had good breath sounds bilaterally on auscultation. Examination of the lower extremities did not reveal any significant swelling, cyanosis, or calf tenderness, and bilateral Homan's signs were negative. The patient was transferred via ambulance to the emergency department for workup for a suspected pulmonary embolism. Initial labs with coagulation profile (PT, PTT) and CBC were normal. A chest x-ray done in the emergency department was unremarkable. A spiral CT scan revealed bilateral pleural effusions and filling defects in segmental branches of the pulmonary artery in the left upper and lower lobes and the right lower lobe, consistent with bilateral pulmonary emboli . The spiral CT scan also demonstrated a deep venous thrombosis in the distal right superficial femoral vein, popliteal vein, and veins of the right calf . The patient was admitted to the medical service for management of pulmonary emboli and deep venous thrombosis. She was started on therapeutic enoxaparin (90 mg) subcutaneously daily and then, a day later, began a daily warfarin regimen. After discovering that the patient was on Nuvaring implantable contraception, it was stopped. During the hospitalization, a workup for hypercoagulability disorders, including Factor V, was negative. She was discharged on hospital day 3 on an anti-coagulant program, with instructions to follow up with hematology. The patient completed 5 months of warfarin therapy and was advised to permanently avoid hormonal-based contraceptives. She was seen in follow-up at just over 7 months postoperative, when she was free of symptoms and doing well from an aesthetic standpoint.
A healthy 29-year-old non-smoking Caucasian female presented to the second surgeon's office in June 2011 for an abdominoplasty. The patient's past medical history was significant for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the chest, diagnosed 8 years prior and treated with chemotherapy. She had been free of disease for 5 years. The patient denied a history of VTE or any recent immobility, trauma, surgery, pregnancy, or miscarriages. She also denied taking any medications or contraceptives on both the patient intake form as well as in the patient interview. She reported no drug allergies or any history of smoking, alcohol, or illicit drug use. She reported no family history of any diseases or hypercoagulation . CT images of the chest and lower extremities of a 26-year-old woman demonstrating the following: (A) left lower lobe pulmonary embolus as denoted by the arrow, (B) right lower lobe pulmonary embolus as denoted by the arrow, (C) left upper lobe pulmonary embolus as denoted by the arrow, and (D) deep vein thrombosis (DVT) of the right distal superficial femoral vein. disorders. The patient had a preoperative history and physical examination and preoperative clearance by her primary care doctor, as well as preoperative labs (CBC, Chem-7, PT/PTT, Urine Pregancy, EKG) that were all normal. The patient underwent an abdominoplasty without plication for 3 hours under epidural anesthesia without any complications, and was discharged to home on the day of surgery. Intermittent pneumatic compression devices and elastic stockings were used for DVT prophylaxis during the surgery. On postoperative day 5, the patient presented via ambulance to the emergency department in no acute distress but complaining of increased weakness, fatigue, and dizziness. She also noted palpitations and chest discomfort but no shortness of breath. She was tachycardic (120 beats/ seconds) and mildly hypotensive (90/55), but had a pulse oximetry saturation of 95% on room air. She had bilateral breath sounds, and examination of her lower extremities was normal. The patient was given maintenance intravenous fluids and boluses for her suspected dehydration from poor oral intake in the relatively immediate postoperative period. A 12-lead electrocardiogram demonstrated sinus tachycardia with a T-wave abnormality. Lab work was essentially normal, except for a slightly elevated white blood cell count of 12.2 and mild anemia with a Hemoblobin of 9.6 and a Hematocrit of 27.7. There was strong consideration for pulmonary embolism given her clinical presentation and the recent abdominoplasty. CT angiography of the chest was ordered, which confirmed massive bilateral pulmonary emboli with involvement of segmental and subsegmental branches of the pulmonary artery system, as well as dependent bibasilar atelectasis . Evidence on the CT scan of slight bowing of the interventricular septum was noted, which suggested right heart strain. The abdomen and pelvis were negative on the scan, except for the presence of a contraceptive ring device in the upper vagina and a small amount of pelvic ascites. No evidence of any obvious deep venous thrombosis was detected on the CT scan. The patient was questioned about the contraceptive ring device, and disclosed at this time that she was on a Nuvaring contraceptive device at the time of the surgery, and had been on the device for some time. According to the patient, she had denied any medications in all of her preoperative workup because she forgot she was on Nuvaring. After the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism was confirmed, weightbased heparin therapy was started with a bolus and maintenance drip. Vascular surgery was consulted for a potential embolectomy, and the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit. Transthoracic echocardiography was performed and showed normal left ventricle size and function, but a dilated right ventricle with moderately reduced right ventricular function. The echocardiogram also revealed evidence of systolic pulmonary hypertension. Venous dopplers of bilateral lower extremities were also done and showed a deep venous thrombosis in the left common femoral vein. Vascular surgery was recommended for therapeutic benefit as well as to minimize possible future complications such as pulmonary hypertension and right heart strain. On hospital day 2, the patient received a pulmonary angiography with catheter embolectomy of bilateral pulmonary emboli using the AngioJet Xpeedior system (Bayer HealthCare, Indianola, PA). An angiogram demonstrated a filling defect of the right main pulmonary artery and the left pulmonary artery supplying the lower lobe . An embolectomy was done with full resolution of the clot in the right main pulmonary artery and a majority resolution in the left pulmonary artery. The patient recovered and heparin therapy was transitioned to enoxaparin (65 mg subcutaneous every 12 hours) and warfarin. She was maintained on enoxaparin until adequate anticoagulation could be achieved with the warfarin regimen. During her hospital course, she remained stable with normalization of her tachycardia and she was discharged on warfarin with a therapeutic international normalized ratio (INR) level on hospital day 8, with instructions for follow-up. No primary hypercoaguability disorders were detected on hematologic workup as an outpatient. The patient completed a 6 month course of warfarin, and had no further incidents related to the pulmonary embolism. She was advised to avoid all hormonally-based birth control methods.
