A 53-year-old male patient with an established diagnosis of IgG multiple myeloma was seen by a hematologist– oncologist in consultation from an outside hospital. He had previously received 1 cycle of chemotherapy treatment, but he was found to be intermittently noncompliant with his therapy. The patient reported occasional nosebleeds and fatigue. Except for a slightly cachectic appearance, the physical examination was unremarkable. Laboratory results are shown in . Serum protein electrophoresis revealed monoclonal paraproteinemia in high abundance marked by an intense band in the region. Immunofixation electrophoresis was not ordered at that time, but it was previously performed at another institution and was positive for IgG monoclonal protein. The attending pathologist noted the discrepancy between the presence of a monoclonal band by serum protein electrophoresis and the patient's quantitative immunoglobulin measurements. Several additional suspicious test results were also noted.
ulin concentration in the patient sample from the calibration curve. Aberrant immunoglobulins expressed in monoclonal gammopathies may cause interference in routine immunoassay methods. Reagent immunoglobulins used in methods for immunoglobulin quantification are optimized to recognize the diverse constellation of circulating polyclonal immunoglobulins found in physiological states other than monoclonal gammopathy. The presence of an overabundance of a single clone has been shown to cause unexpected behavior in routine immunoassay methods, resulting in erroneously high or low immunoglobulin measurements (4 ). It has been hypothesized that expression of atypical epitopes or large concentrations of single clones causes incomplete reaction of the reagent antibodies with the aberrant immunoglobulins, resulting in inaccurate measurements when using routine immunoassay methods. Immunoturbidimetric and nephelometric methods are susceptible to an additional type of interference known as antigen excess or prozone effect. This phenomenon occurs when excessive quantities of antigen inhibit stable antigen–antibody complex formation. The subsequent decrease in detected absorbance leads to a falsely low measured concentration (3, 4 ). Detection of the prozone effect requires dilution of the sample to remove the antigen excess and allow appropriate formation of the antigen–antibody complex, resulting in an accurate measurement (3, 5 ). The prozone effect is more often observed when measurements are obtained using an immunoturbidimetric method; modern nephelometers are typically less susceptible to this effect because they employ an automatic dilution step to detect antigen excess (5 ). Testing was repeated with a 1:100 dilution (1 part serum to 99 parts normal saline) and an IgG concentration of 14 400 mg/dL (144.0 g/L) was obtained, which was consistent with the serum protein electrophoresis results and the patient's overall clinical presentation. Repeat measurements of IgA and IgM were not performed due to sample volume constraints. posure to the ISE membrane, thus minimizing electrode degradation and calibration drift (6 ). Instruments that utilize a predilution step assume a normal ratio exists between the plasma water volume and the total plasma volume (2 ). This assumption may be invalid when analyzing samples containing abnormal increases in proteins and/or lipids and can lead to falsely low measurements of solute, with sodium being most commonly affected. The volume displacement effect can be avoided in these samples by employing ionselective electrodes that utilize direct potentiometry, in which electrolyte measurements are evaluated in an undiluted plasma sample (6 ). The original serum sodium result of 124 mmol/L, as measured by indirect potentiometry, was inconsistent with the patient's clinical presentation. In this case, the volume displacement effect was suspected as the most likely etiology of the pseudohyponatremia. The patient's serum sodium concentration was repeated utilizing direct potentiometry on the NOVA CCX analyzer, and a sodium concentration of 138.5 mmol/L, which is within the reference interval, was obtained.
