A 52-year-old woman was referred to a nephrologist for work-up of proteinuria and slightly increased serum creatinine levels found during a routine health examination. The patient had been aware of her proteinuria for 2 years. However, she had not undergone further evaluation or treatment. The patient had no other relevant medical history. The laboratory results of complete blood count and blood chemistry assay were represented in . Urinalysis revealed 1+ protein with normal pH, and the results were negative for glucose. Random urine chemistry showed a state of glomerular proteinuria as the results revealed creatinine level of 1847.56 μmol/L (20.9 mg/dL), microalbumin level of 0.04869 g/dL (486.9 mg/L), and an albumin/creatinine ratio of 2329.7 mg/g. The protein level in the 24-h urine sample was elevated to 2.62 g. The patient was then found to have a monoclonal protein concentration of 5.2 g/L in serum and 0.01 g/L in urine. The serum and urine monoclonal protein fractions were found to represent IgG and kappa in immune fixation electrophoresis. The free kappa and lambda light-chain levels in the serum were 571.6 mg/L and 23.3 mg/L, respectively, and the serum free light-chain ratio was 24.53 (0.26 − 1.65). There was no evidence suggesting hepatitis B or C virus or human immunodeficiency virus infection on serologic tests. An ultrasound-guided kidney biopsy was performed; the final pathologic diagnosis was FSGS. Among 16 glomeruli, seven showed global sclerosis and two showed segmental glomerulosclerosis . Mild tubular atrophy, mild interstitial fibrosis, and focal tubular necrosis were observed. Interestingly, proximal tubular epithelial cells contained some crystalline structures . Congo red staining also produced negative results. Interstitial inflammation with mild infiltration of lymphocytes was noted. Immunofluorescence microscopy showed a linear pattern with trace intensity for IgG and a granular pattern for complement component C3 (++), C1q (+), and fibrinogen (trace) in the glomerulus . However, there was no significant positive staining for IgA, IgM, or C4. On performing immunofluorescent staining, the mesangium, tubules, interstitium, and vessels were negative for staining. However, many of the tubular cells showed stronger positivity for the kappa light chain than for the lambda light chain on immunohistochemical staining. Electron microscopic examination revealed diffuse effacement of foot processes and electron-dense deposits, with some crystalline structures in the cytoplasm of visceral glomerular epithelial cells. Furthermore, similar electron-dense crystalline deposits found in podocytes were observed throughout the cytoplasm of proximal tubular cells . These showed diverse morphology with a needle shape or a rhomboid shape and variable size ranging from 0.2 × 1 to 0.5 × 2.8 μm 2. However, no pathologic abnormalities were noted within the glomerular basement membrane, mesangium, or glomerular endothelium. A BM examination was performed to investigate for the presence of plasma-cell neoplasms. The BM aspirate smears were stained with Wright's stain. The plasma cells with fine needle-shaped intracellular crystalline depositions were found to have increased in number, representing up to 10.4 % of the total nucleated cells counted . Typical plasma cells were rarely observed. All of the cells with intracellular cytoplasmic crystalline inclusions were negative for α-naphthyl acetate esterase (ANBE) staining, suggesting that macrophages such as histiocytes were not involved. The paraffin-embedded BM biopsy and clot sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin. The cellularity of the BM was 30–40 %, that is, she had normocellular marrow for her age. Cells with red-colored cytoplasmic inclusions and eccentric mononucleosis, which seemed to be malignant plasma cells, were frequently seen in the clot sections . Immunohistochemical staining was performed on the BM clot sections with antibodies against CD138, kappa light-chain, and lambda lightchain. Plasma cells stained with CD138 were seen in these sections more frequently than in the aspiration smear. The plasma cells showed strongly positive staining for kappa light-chains . However, a few of the plasma cells were positive for lambda light-chain staining. Masson's trichrome staining was performed on clot sections to evaluate the characteristic features of the crystalline deposits. The plasma cells had deep-redcolored cytoplasmic inclusions with fine needle-shaped structures . These cells were negative in periodic acid-Schiff staining. The complex karyotype of 44,X,-X,-6,-21,+mar
/ 46,XX was determined by conventional karyotyping using the BM specimen. The fluorescence in situ hybridization studies for detecting cytogenetic abnormalities such as TP53 deletion, 13q14 (RB1) deletion, 1q trisomy, and rearrangement of IgH/MAF-t(14;16), IgH/ FGFR3-t(4;14), IGH/CCND1-t(11;14) were found to be negative.
