A 44-year-old unmarried man was admitted to our hospital for refractory bilateral leg ulcers, which had been present for nearly 18 years. His job as a chef at a sushi restaurant involved prolonged hours of standing. Since the age of 26 years he had received treatment in the department of vascular surgery for painful bilateral leg ulcers , for which Buerger disease had been diagnosed, and bilateral varicose veins of the lower extremities. The patient was uncooperative toward treatment and repeatedly admitted to the hospital: 9 times in total over a period of 18 years. However, they had believed that these diseases was the cause of the ulcers, treatment for these diseases made no remarkable change of ulcers, therefore the patient was referred to our department. On admission, physical examination revealed obesity (height: 170.0 cm, weight: 98 kg, body-mass index, 33.9 kg! m 2 ) with long legs and eunuchoid body proportions . Body hair was sparse. However, gynecomastia was absent, and testes and penis were of normal size. An 8×5-cm ulcer was observed over the dorsum of the right foot and ankle. The ulcer was covered with hard, yellow necrotic tissue and the extensor hallusis longus muscle tendon was exposed at the ulcer of the tendon .
There were also multiple ulcers, hyperpigmentation lesions and a tendency towards skin atrophy due to stasis dermatitis on both legs, similarly covered with necrotic tissue. The dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses were palpable bilaterally in the legs. Venous Doppler ultrasonography of the leg showed dilated veins with reflux and an incompetent perforating vein with no aneurysms just under the ulcer of the right foot and ankle. Pathological examination of this ulcer showed no malignancy. Laboratory studies revealed no abnormalities of blood biochemistry, the immune system, or fibrinolytic variables, such as prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and serum levels of fibrinogen and plasminogen. No spontaneous aggregation of platelets was observed,The persistent ulcers had been treated with ointments, surgical debridement, split-thickness skin grafts, and advanced biointeractive skin dressings but had not healed completely. On pathological examination, organized thrombi and evidence of recanalization were noted . Bacterial cultures of the ulcers obtained on admission yielded Pseudomonas aeruginosa, but cultures obtained 8 days later were negative.
We performed a negative pressure wound treatment for 1 month. As a result of this treatment, the ulcers did not heal completely but were considerably improved. However, we complied with the patient's request for discharge, and he was directed to the outpatient clinic for follow-up after 10 months admission. At discharge, we had told the patient the importance of continuous treatment. As a result, the patient finally recognized the importance of treatment and, more than 1 year after initial visit, the ulcers had healed completely.ance may cause unstable cognitive competence. In the present patient, the additional " negative " personality specific to the patient seemed to be the cause of the extremely poor compliance with the treatment. In Japan, 51 cases, including the present case, of leg ulcers in patients with Klinefelter syndrome have been reported. There is no established therapy for leg ulcer, but some of the reports 10 have suggested that administration of testosterone encourages healing; however, the treatment developed some problems, such as short temper, and the patient wished to stop further administration of testosterone. We also could heal the leg ulcer to resume the small amount of testosterone administration in the future.
