A 10 year old girl of Afro-Caribbean descent presented to the emergency department with complaints of chest pain, shortness of breath and fever over the past 4 days. The left-sided chest pain was described as " squeezing, " and was associated with palpitations. Both the pain and shortness of breath were worse in the supine position and partially relieved on leaning forward. She had no past medical history. However, over the last three months she was becoming increasingly fatigued and noticed significant weight loss, intermittent fevers and arthralgia affecting the wrist and elbow joints. She denied hair loss, oral ulcers, a rash or any medication use. There was no known family history of autoimmune disease. On examination she had a heart rate of 135 bpm, a respiratory rate of 40 breaths/min, blood pressure of 93/63 mmHg and a temperature of 37.7°C. She was underweight with a body mass index of 13.8 kg/m 2 , had pale conjunctivae and maintained an oxygen saturation of 98% on room air. On cardiovascular examination heart sounds were muffled and the apex beat was * Correspondence: satishsmaharaj@gmail.com † Equal contributors Eric Williams Medical Sciences Complex, The University of the West Indies, Champs Fleurs, Trinidad and Tobago diffuse and displaced inferiorly. The pulse was diminished on inspiration. It was difficult to formally assess for pulsus paradoxus due to the patient's abnormal respiration. Jugular venous distension was evident. Respiratory examination revealed decreased breath sounds at the left lung base which was also dull on percussion. The rest of the examination only proved significant for generalized lymphadenopathy. There was no evidence of joint inflammation, peripheral oedema or clubbing. Electrocardiography showed sinus tachycardia, low voltage and electrical alternans [
, Additional file 1]. The chest radiograph displayed an enlarged cardiac silhouette with a left-sided pulmonary infiltrate . Transthoracic echocardiography confirmed features of cardiac tamponade from a large circumferential pericardial effusion, along with mobile intrapericardial fibrinous strands and the pleural effusion . Echocardiography guided pericardiocentesis was then performed and 1000 mL of pericardial fluid was drained, immediately bringing relief to the patient. Repeat echocardiography showed a reduced volume of pericardial fluid with no additional reaccumulation and normal heart function. Laboratory investigations revealed a normocytic anaemia with a normal white cell count and differential. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) was 91 mm/hr and C-reactive protein (CRP) was markedly elevated at 191 mg/dL. Cardiac biomarkers, renal and liver function testing were all normal. Urinalysis was within normal limits and showed no proteinuria. HIV testing and a Mantoux tuberculin skin test were negative. The patient's serum tested strongly positive for antinuclear antibodies (ANA) with a coarse speckled pattern and was also positive for anti-double stranded DNA antibodies (anti-dsDNA). Serum complement levels were low with a C3 of 36 mg/dL (normal range 101 – 186 mg/dL) and C4 of 6.7 mg/dL (normal range 16 – 47 mg/dL). Pericardial fluid cytology showed cells of an inflammatory response with no microorganisms identified on Gram stain or Ziehl-Neelsen stain. There was no evidence of malignancy. The diagnosis of SLE was established based on the positive clinical and immunologic findings. The patientsatisfied 4 of the 17 Systemic Lupus International Collaborating Clinics (SLICC) criteria for classifying SLE, namely serositis, low serum complement levels, positive serum ANA and positive anti-dsDNA antibodies . Supporting the diagnosis was the history of arthralgia, generalized lymphadenopathy and elevated ESR. The patient was started on high dose corticosteroids and discharged soon after with follow up as an outpatient. At the follow up visit she continued to do well and was enrolled in clinic for long term management of cSLE.
