A 40-year-old healthy male presented to the emergency department with an acute onset of progressively more severe left flank pain over the course of 4 hours. Prior to 1 week, he had been seen in an outside emergency department, for similar, less severe symptoms and at which time a noncontrast, stone protocol computed tomography (CT) scan and laboratory evaluation were unremarkable. His pain had resolved and he was discharged home where he had remained symptom free throughout the week. He had no history of nephrolithiasis, urinary tract infection, or other urinary tract symptoms. His past medical history was only significant for a bicuspid aortic valve without hypertension. Vital signs at the time of presentation were within normal limits, including his blood pressure. He had never smoked. His examination was significant for left costovertebral angle tenderness. Initial laboratory tests showed normal creatinine, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and serum electrolytes, no leukocytosis, and an unremarkable urinalysis. His only medication was multivitamins. Computed tomography (CT) after intravenous contrast ( , B) revealed a large wedge-shaped area of decreased enhancement in the posterolateral mid-pole of the left kidney. There was mild perinephric fat stranding but no cortical atrophy. The findings were felt to be consistent with an acute renal infarct. Renal angiography  was subsequently performed, which revealed vascular abnormalities in the midpole and upper-pole renal arteries, leading to high suspicion for fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD). The angiographic findings included the following: 1. a faint collection of contrast, which was felt to represent an aneurysm, 2. a subtle area of arterial wall irregularity in the proximal midpole artery, with a possible ''string of beads'' appearance,
3. a smooth concentric stenosis in the dominant artery supplying the mid-pole, and 4. multiple areas in the periphery of the middle pole of the kidney, without perfusion consistent with a microembolic infarct presumably secondary to the aneurysm. The areas of absent peripheral perfusion in the upper pole were due to nonopacification of an upper-pole artery that arose separately from the aorta.
The patient was started on enoxaparin and then transitioned to oral anticoagulation with warfarin in order to prevent further thromboembolic episodes and to allow recanalization ofFollow-up ultrasound of the left kidney confirmed that arterial perfusion of the posterior mid-pole remained normal, and there was no flow within the aneurysm. The patient has had no further episodes of flank pain in the ensuing 12 months.
