A 2-year old female, recently hospitalized for pneumonia, returned to the pediatric emergency department for continued symptoms of cough, fever, and malaise. Chest X-ray was significant for new cardiomegaly and an echocardiogram demonstrated a large intrapericardial mass displacing the heart rightward but causing no compression of any cardiac structures. Laboratory workup was unremarkable. The patient was hospitalized and a chest CT confirmed an enlarged pericardial cavity with a 7.3 cm 9 3.6 cm intrapericardial mass adjacent to the left ventricular cavity . CT and MRI could not clearly delineate any incorporation of the mass into cardiac structures. Due to the large size and intrapericardial location of the mass as well as the onset of rapidly evolving symptoms, surgical resection was advised. On hospital day 6, the patient underwent a midline sternotomy with planned excision of her intrapericardial mass. Operative exploration demonstrated an intrapericardial mass at the level of the left atrioventricular groove in close proximity to the left coronary artery system. Intraoperative pathology was consistent with a high-grade malignancy with primitive-appearing round-shaped to ovoid-shaped cells with irregular nuclei and scant pale eosinophilic cytoplasm . There were no pericardial attachments of the mass visualized, and multiple pericardial samples demonstrated no evidence of widespread malignancy by pathologic evaluation. Total resection was attempted, but it was not feasible due to the tumor's invasive nature into the myocardial structures. It was unknown if the mass originated from a cardiac structure, though no other site of origin was evident. The patient recovered uneventfully after surgery.
The patient's intrapericardial mass was diagnosed as a poorly differentiated malignancy with t(15; 19) (q12–14; q13.3) gene rearrangement on the nuclear protein in testis (NUT) gene consistent with a NUT midline carcinoma . After multidisciplinary assessment, chemotherapy with paclitaxel, ifosfamide, mesna, cisplatin, and vorinostat was introduced. A PET CT demonstrated concern for metastasis to the abdomen, so cardiac transplantation was not considered at that time. Six weeks postoperatively, a chest CT demonstrated an intrapericardial mass arising from the left ventricle with dimensions 7.4 cm 9 6.5 cm 9 9.1 cm which indicated a regrowth of her tumor. The patient's course was complicated further by intolerance of her treatment regimen. Transition to TEN-010 targeted chemotherapy was attempted; however, this therapy was eventually deemed unsuccessful. Palliative chemotherapy continued approximately 3 months after initial diagnosis with repeat chest CT demonstrating further growth of the mass .
