A 73-year-old woman was diagnosed with CML-CP, and IM treatment (400 mg, daily) was started in January 2010. The patient achieved a complete molecular response (CMR) at 6 months after IM therapy. However, she developed irondeficiency anemia in May 2010 that was refractory to oral iron supplementation. In March 2013, after the detection of occult blood in a stool sample, the patient underwent gastrointestinal endoscopy and colon fiberscopy. No abnormalities were revealed on a physical examination and, with the exception of anemia and the mild elevation of lactate dehydrogenease, the laboratory tests were unremarkable (
. Gastrointestinal endoscopy showed oozing blood with vascular ectasia in the gastric corpus and antrum ( .WBC: white blood cell, St: stab neutrophil, Seg: segmented neutrophil, Ly: lymphocyte, Mo: monocyte, Eo: eosinophil, Ba: basophil, Hb: hemoglobin, Plt: platelet, Ret: reticulocyte, BUN: blood urea nitrogen, Cr: creatinine, T. Bil: total bilirubin, AST: aspartate aminotransferase, ALT: alanine aminotransferase, LDH: lactate dehydrogenase, ST: sulfamethoxazole /trimethoprim *: Normal range, 120-220 U/L tion (APC) and endoscopic mucosal resection in the rectum. IM was replaced with nilotinib (800 mg, daily). Currently, the patient remains in a state of CMR with nilotinib, and the iron deficiency anemia has been completely resolved.
A 57-year-old man was diagnosed with CML-CP in November 1993. Interferon-α treatment was started but later discontinued due to severe side effects. IM was started in December 2001 and was continued at a dose of 100-200 mg/day. However, the patient developed CML blastic crisis (CML-BC) in December 2006. Since the patient refused hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and chemotherapies other than IM, the dose of IM was increased to up to 800 mg/day, which achieved the control of his disease. The patient noted tarry stool and vomited a large amount of blood in the beginning of March, 2007. A physical examination revealed pallor of the conjunctiva and skin, while the laboratory data showed severe anemia (hemoglobin, 2.8 g/dL), leukocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction due to chronic kidney disease, and the mild elevation of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and LDH ( . Emergent upper GI endoscopy was performed on the day after the onset of hematemesis, showed vascular ectasia in the gastric corpus and antrum with bleeding. Drug-induced GAVE was suspected and the IM treatment was stopped. The patient's condition stabilized after a massive transfusion of red blood cells and platelets. Treatment with proton pump inhibiter (omeprazole) was started. Although no obvious GI bleeding occurred after the cessation of IM, GI bleeding recurred about 4 weeks after IM treatment was restarted (800 mg, daily).
A 58-year-old woman with CML lymphoid crisis received IM (600 mg/day) as part of a remission induction therapy in December 2009. The patient achieved complete remission (CR) and received consolidation therapy in February 2010, which consisted of high-dose methotrexate, high-dose cytarabine, methylprednisolone, and subsequent IM (600 mg/ day). However, 9 days after starting IM treatment, the patient developed tarry stool. At that time, patient had mild pitting edema in the bilateral lower extremities. Laboratory tests showed severe cytopenias associated with the consolidation therapy, and the mild elevation of AST, ALT, and LDH ( . Upper GI endoscopy showed gastric telangiectasia with oozing blood in the gastric corpus and antrum. IM was stopped due to suspected IM-induced GAVE and switched to nilotinib. The GI bleeding resolved 1 week after the cessation of IM treatment. The complete resolution of GAVE was confirmed by an endoscopic reevaluation, which was performed 6 weeks after the onset of GI bleeding (3 weeks after starting nilotinib treatment). The patient received a peripheral blood stem cell transplantation from a human leukocyte antigen-matched sibling in April 2010 and has maintained a CR since that time.
