A 3-month-old boy with aortic coarctation presented with edematous left leg and poor pulses 1 week after aortic balloon dilatation via 5-French left common femoral artery sheath. Limited Doppler US documented maintained flow to the limb. However, because of the swelling heparin was prophylactically administered for 1 week. A 4-cm pulsatile mass in the left hemipelvis was incidentally noted on MRI performed 6 weeks later for possible tethered spinal cord . A large pelvic pseudoaneurysm was identified on sonography . Angiography showed a large pseudoaneurysm of the left external iliac artery just distal to the iliac bifurcation with no flow in the external iliac artery distal to the pseudoaneurysm . There was reconstitution of the left femoral artery from internal iliac collaterals. Given the lesion's large size at diagnosis, it was thought that it was unlikely to spontaneously resolve. Furthermore, rupture of this deep pelvic pseudoaneurysm could cause a massive retroperitoneal hemorrhage. Therefore treatment was initiated. Recombinant thrombin (Recothrom; ZymoGenetics, Seattle, WA) was reconstituted to a concentration of 100 units/mL with sterile water. Under sonographic guidance using a lineartransducer, the pseudoaneurysm was accessed percutaneously with a 25-gauge spinal needle. Under sonographic visualization, thrombin was slowly injected into the pseudoaneurysm while the internal iliac artery was observed, and care was taken to avoid injection of thrombin too close to the neck of the pseudoaneurysm . Eventually nearly the entire pseudoaneurysm thrombosed after injection of 180 units of thrombin, and flow within the internal iliac artery was maintained. When compression was released, however, a small amount of flow within the pseudoaneurysm was noted. Under sonographic guidance, the aneurysm was compressed for 20 min. However, upon release of compression, approximately 20% of the area had recanalized. Again, the pseudoaneurysm was similarly accessed under US guidance and an additional 160 units of thrombin was injected. At the conclusion of the procedure, there was no color Doppler flow within the pseudoaneurysm, and the needle was removed . The underlying internal iliac artery was patent. The extremities were both warm and well perfused, with normal capillary refill at the conclusion of the procedure. One week later US study demonstrated mural thrombus within much of the pseudoaneurysm sac. However, there was recanalization of a 1.5x1.4-cm area of the sac extending from Initial imaging of a pulsatile mass in the left hemipelvis in a 3-month-old boy. a T2-weighted axial image from lumbar spine MR shows pulsation artifact (arrows) and bladder (B) displaced to the right by the mass. b Gray-scale US image shows 4cm vascular mass with a narrow 3-mm neck (calipers). c Color Doppler US demonstrates to-andfro flow within mass. d Angiography shows large pelvic pseudoaneurysm extending from origin of the left external iliac artery just distal to the iliac bifurcation with no flow in the external iliac artery distal to the pseudoaneurysm. Note reconstitution of the left common femoral artery from internal iliac collateralsthe neck with to-and-fro flow within . The internal iliac artery remained patent, and distal pulses were palpable. Repeat digital subtraction aortography, performed via right common femoral artery access, and ultrasonography were performed 11 days after the initial thrombin injection. By this time, the pseudoaneurysm had further recanalized to 2.2x1.3 cm . Several attempts to cannulate the neck of the pseudoaneurysm using multiple microcatheters and microwires were unsuccessful. Thrombin injection was again performed using 50 units and resulted in cessation of internal flow within the pseudoaneurysm . At 1-week follow-up, US demonstrated partial recanalization . Coil embolization of the residual pseudoaneurysm was considered. Three days later, the residual 1.3x1.0-cm sac was accessed under sonographic guidance using a 21-gauge needle. Over a V-18 ControlWire guidewire (Boston Scientific, Natick, MA), a Renegade STC 18 microcatheter (Boston Scientific) was advanced into the sac. A contrast study was performed . Under alternating fluoroscopic and sonographic visualization, the sac was embolized with six Interlock 18 Fibered IDC coils (Boston Scientific). Coils used were 12 mm x 20 cm, 10 mm x 20 cm, 6 mm x 20 cm, and 6 mm x 10 cm. Flow within the pseudoaneurysm was completely obliterated, as confirmed sonographically and with direct contrast injection . Follow-up US studies at 1 week and 3 weeks confirmed complete thrombosis of the pseudoaneurysm . The left internal iliac and femoral arteries remained patent, and distal pulses were palpable with good capillary refill. The boy was asymptomatic more than 1 year post-procedure.
