Coronary artery disease complicates the care of patients who require noncardiac surgery. Routine perioperative coronary angiography and prophylactic revascularization are not recommended before noncardiac surgery in contemporary guidelines because of an absence of benefit. 6 The Coronary Artery Revascularization Prophylaxis (CARP) trial compared coronary revascularization with a strategy of medical management in 510 patients with significant CAD who were scheduled to undergo nonurgent vascular surgery. 16 In CARP, 59% of patients randomly assigned to revascularization underwent PCI with early generations of bare metal stents, and 41% underwent coronary bypass surgery. The median delay to noncardiac surgery was 36 days. There were no differences in 30-day (3.1% versus 3.4%, P=0.87) and longterm (22% versus 23%, P=0.92) mortality after 2.7 years of follow-up. The CARP trial excluded patients with left main disease or severely reduced ejection fraction, and the effect of preoperative revascularization before noncardiac surgery in these populations is uncertain. For patients with recent PCI, the timing of noncardiac surgery also remains controversial. Surgery following placement of a coronary stent is associated with increased adverse cardiac events because of the prothrombotic and inflammatory effects of surgery combined with premature cessation of antiplatelet therapy. Risks are highest when surgery is performed within 4 to 6 weeks of a coronary intervention, and recent guidelines recommend delaying elective surgery by ≥30 days after placement of a bare metal stents or ≥1 year for DES (class I, lOE B) based on early studies. 17 A large retrospective cohort study of Veterans Affairs patients undergoing noncardiac surgery within 2 years of a coronary stent demonstrated stable rates of cardiovascular events if surgery was performed at least 6 months after PCI. 18 In this analysis, perioperative cardiovascular risk was similar across stent type (DES versus bare metal stents) but was higher in patients with PCI for recent MI versus those with revascularization for stable CAD. 18 Based on these and other data, 18,19 elective noncardiac surgery may be considered ≥180 days after uncomplicated elective PCI with DES, if the risk of further surgical delay is greater than the risks of ischemic complications (class IIb, lOE B). 6 However, additional prospective studies are necessary to determine optimal antiplatelet management strategies for patients with recent DES who need elective noncardiac surgery but cannot wait the recommended minimum 1-year delay. Perioperative management of antiplatelet therapy after PCI is another common challenge. Clinical practice guidelines recommend continuation of aspirin monotherapy after PCI in the perioperative period, although this is largely based on expert opinion. In contrast, perioperative continuation of dual-antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and a P2Y 12 inhibitor is associated with a substantial increase in moderate and severe bleeding. 20 The timing of withdrawal of P2Y 12 inhibitor therapy must be tailored to the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of each drug. Clopidogrel and ticagrelor should be discontinued ≥5 days before surgery, and prasugrel should be held for ≥7 days. Continuation of dual-antiplatelet therapy can be considered for patients with the highest risks of perioperative thrombotic events or those with minimal surgery-specific risks of bleeding. Clinical trials investigating the use of perioperative platelet activity testing and short-acting intravenous antiplatelet agents are needed in certain high-risk patients.
Preoperative cardiovascular risk stratification was performed. The patient had 1 RCRI risk factor, associated with a 0.9% risk of major perioperative cardiac complications; by the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program calculator he had a 0.74% risk of MI or cardiac arrest and a 0.4% risk of death. In light of the low RCRI score, β-blocker therapy was not initiated. Clopidogrel was discontinued 5 days before surgery, and aspirin and statin were continued in the perioperative period. The patient underwent an uncomplicated elective total knee replacement. On the first postoperative day, a 1-month course of low-molecular weight heparin was initiated for VTE prophylaxis. The patient was discharged home with no postoperative cardiovascular complications.
