A 59-year-old man presented with a one-week history of abdominal distension and decreased urine output with a high-grade fever. The patient had undergone retroperitoneoscopic nephroureterectomy 22 months earlier for urothelial carcinoma of the right ureter followed by radical cystoprostatectomy and construction of an orthotopic ileal neobladder 17 months earlier for urothelial carcinoma of the bladder. The reservoir was a detubularized, ileal, U-shaped neobladder constructed using 45 cm of the terminal ileum. The patient's postoperative course had been uneventful. Twelve months after neobladder construction, he had a bladder capacity of 400-500 mL, a post-void residual urine volume of <50 mL and no need for clean intermittent catheterization. A physical examination revealed abdominal bulging and bilateral lower extremity swelling. The laboratory findings were as follows: white blood cell count, 10,700/mm 3 ; platelets, 200,000/mm 3 ; serum creatinine, 2.15 mg/dL; and Creactive protein, 30.74 mg/dL. The prothrombin and activated partial thromboplastin times were within the reference ranges. Unenhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed that the massively distended ileal neobladder was compressing the IVC bifurcation against the fifth lumbar vertebra, where the right common iliac artery intersected in front of the bifurcation, with left-sided hydronephrosis and hydroureter . Urethrocystoscopy confirmed the presence of neovesicourethral anastomotic stricture, which was treated with endoscopic urethrotomy. A 20-Fr Foley catheter was Department of Urology, Toyama City Hospital, Japan, Department of Respiratory and Vascular Surgery, Toyama City Hospital, Japan, Department of Radiology, Toyama City Hospital, Japan and Department of Internal Medicine, Toyama City Hospital, Japan Received for publication February 1, 2014; Accepted for publication September 10, 2014 Correspondence to Dr. Koichi Kodama, kokodama@tch.toyama.toyama.jpintroduced, and 2,000 mL of Staphylococcus agalactiaeinfected urine was collected, resulting in a reduction in the lower extremity swelling. Intravenous ampicillin sodium/sulbactam sodium was subsequently administered to treat the bacterial infection. After one week of therapy, the patient's renal function returned to normal, and contrast-enhanced CT identified a 5×5×12-mm thrombus in the IVC bifurcation, without pulmonary embolism . According to the retrospective evaluation of contrast-enhanced CT scans obtained 12 months after neobladder construction, there was no evidence of venous thrombi in the iliac veins or IVC. After excluding the possibility of other risk factors for deep vein thrombosis (DVT), we presumed that compression by the distended neobladder had led to thrombus formation in the IVC. Following the administration of transurethral drainage for six weeks and anticoagulation therapy with warfarin for six months, the thrombus completely disappeared, as observed on CT scans. After undergoing urethral catheter removal, the patient voided spontaneously, with a post-void residual urine volume of <50 mL.
