A 3-week-old Caucasian girl, born at 40 weeks after an uneventful pregnancy, was referred for a heart murmur and failure to thrive. A clinical examination showed increased blood pressure (170/110 mmHg, normal 60–80/ 30–50 mmHg) and a purple skin nodule on her right thigh. Echocardiography showed major left ventricular hypertrophy. A biopsy of the nodule was compatible with IM . Radiological assessment, including abdominal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography of her chest, and a scintigraphic skeletal survey, showed diffuse muscular and visceral lesions. Chemotherapy with methotrexate and vinblastine was started and resulted in progressive regression of the lesions. Arterial hypertension was managed by propranolol and captopril. After 2 months, her creatinine clearance rateCASE REPORTS went down to 51.8 ml/min/m 2 (Schwartz's formula). A kidney color Doppler ultrasound showed a reduction in size of her right kidney with no diastolic flow in the artery. Mercaptoacetyltriglycine renal scintigraphy revealed a right-side relative renal function of only 30 %. Her glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was 68 mL/min/ 1.73 m 2 (normal ±120 ml/min/1.73 m 2 ). At 2 years of age, an angiography was performed because of the persistence of hypertension. This showed stenosis of her left renal artery with no perfusion of her left kidney, and two aneurisms involving her right renal artery and right common iliac artery . Two Gore-tex grafts of 6 mm diameter each were interposed: the first one between her right adrenal gland artery and the superior polar branch of her right renal artery, and the second one half way along the length of her common iliac artery . She received heparin with the following dosage regimen: 50 UI/kg/day on day 1, 220 UI/kg/day units on day 2, 280 UI/kg/day units on days 3 and 4, then stopped. However, on the first postoperative day, the renal bypass thrombosed and our patient developed irreversible kidney failure. Hemodialysis was started with a catheter inserted in our patient's right jugular vein thorough to the superior vena cava. After several weeks of hemodialysis, she developed an extensive thrombosis of her superior caval venous system. Peritoneal dialysis was started, which was complicated by chylous ascites. At 3 years of age (weight 11.7 kg), when her IM was considered to be in remission, she was registered on the waiting list for a KT. The transplantation took place 2 months later, when an adult deceased donor became available (heart beating donor, weight 63 kg, height 173 cm, weight ratio 0.196). The kidney was connected to a perfusion machine for The graft function normalized in 2 days (creatinine 0.69 mg/dl, GFR 71.3 ml/min/1.73 m 2 ). Severe chylous ascites appeared on the ninth postoperative day with about 400 ml/day of chyle drained by the peritoneal dialysis catheter. Isotopic lymphography (Tc-99 m) and ultrasound confirmed a lymphatic leakage in her right iliac region and a lymphocele around the graft (65 × 48 × 92 mm) without vascular or ureteral compression. A conservative treatment was started using albumin and a non-fat diet, with stabilization of the chylous ascites after 8 weeks. Her blood pressure stayed high after the graft and was stabilized with amlodipine and enalapril. Our patient was then discharged with a stable clinical condition and good graft function (creatinine 0.39 mg/ dl, GFR 126.2 ml/min/1.73 m 2 ). Three months after the transplantation, a polymerase chain reaction demonstrated a Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) count of over 200 000 copies/ml and her lymphocyte count had dropped to 240 cells/μL. To restore our patient's immune response to EBV, the immunosuppressive regimen was decreased to methylprednisolone 2 mg/day and tacrolimus 1 mg twice a day (target blood concentration, 5 ng/ml), and azathioprine was stopped. Four months after the transplantation, our patient developed chronic diarrhea. Blood tests showed severe hypoalbuminemia (1.9 g/dl). She was hospitalized because of the deterioration in her general condition, dyspnea and fever. A chest X-ray showed bilateral pleural effusion, which was drained. Her blood pressure was high and her anti-hypertensive treatment was therefore increased. Scintigraphy with transferrin In111 revealed signs of exudative enteropathy. An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed. A biopsy of her gastric mucosa confirmed a diagnosis of posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder (monomorphic diffused large-B-cells lymphoma). Because our patient was not considered able to tolerate the COPADM standard chemotherapy protocol (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, prednisone, methotrexate) and because of lymphocyte CD20 expression, treatment with three doses of anti-CD20 antibodies (rituximab) was chosen. Meanwhile, because of the persistence of her ascites and hypoalbuminemia, lymphatic MRI was done in another center. It showed a 70 × 55 × 78 mm lymphocele on the internal side of the graft, multiple thrombosis of the venous system with development of a collateral circulation, dilatation of her lymphatic system without visualization of a leak, and increased thickness of her intestinal wall. A gastric biopsy was done after the rituximab regimen and showed no residual sign of malignancy. She improved with parenteral nutrition and albumin supplementation, and was discharged home 6 months after transplantation. At almost 5 years of follow-up (age 8), our patient is in good clinical condition (weight 25.6 kg, height 117 cm) and back at school. Her blood pressure is normal (106/ 64 mmHg) with atenolol, amlodipine and enalapril. An Left renal artery wall: thickened intima with relatively young conjunctive tissue. The internal elastic lamina is incomplete. The media is sclerotic with scarce elastic cells and the muscular cells are reduced in number. The adventitia is normal. This observation is compatible with mixed fibromuscular dysplasia, with both the intima and media being altered. IEL: Internal Elastica lamina abdominal color Doppler ultrasound showed a normal aspect of the graft, with lymphocele and ascites resolution. Her creatinine level was 0.40 mg/dl with a calculated GFR of 139.7 ml/min/1.73 m 2. Fraxiparine continues at a dosage of 60 UI/kg/day.
