A 25-year-old Turkish Caucasian man with homozygous (Hb SS) SCD presented to our emergency department with a sudden, painless loss of vision in the left eye for the preceding two hours. His best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 20/20 in the right eye and counting fingers in the left eye. Relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD) was present in the left eye. His anterior segment examination was normal bilaterally and his intraocular pressure was 21mmHg in both eyes, as measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry. Fundus examination revealed a pale and thickened retina, suggesting retinal edema centered on the papillomacular bundle, in addition to increased vascular tortuosity in the left eye . His right fundus was normal. A fundus fluorescein angiography  showed lack of arterial filling of the artery, delayed arteriovenous transit time at 21 seconds, and peripheral capillary non-perfusion in the left eye. His retinal vasculature was normal in the right eye. AnCASE REPORTS optical coherence tomography showed increased central foveal thickness (CFT) and inner retinal layer thickening in the left eye. The CFT at baseline was 403μm . He was subsequently diagnosed with left CRAO. He was hospitalized immediately with the aim of decreasing the blood viscosity. To restore vascular perfusion, hematologists started emergent exchange transfusion within three hours following admission. His BCVA did not change immediately after transfusion. Thus, in addition to the systemic therapy, a HBO therapy was planned, and started within the first 24 hours of admission. The treatment protocol was 2.5 ATA (atmosphere absolute) for 120 minutes twice daily for the first seven days, and then once a day for the following six days, for a maximum total of 20 sessions. An improvement in BCVA to 20/200 was observed after two sessions (24 hours), and to 20/60 at the end of 20 sessions. At the threemonth visit his BCVA had increased to 20/30, and remained so until his last visit at six months. At the last visit his fundus examination showed the recovery of retinal ischemia  and OCT scan showed CFT to be 200μm .
