A 43-year old woman was admitted to hospital with a chief complaint of abdominal pain in the lower right quadrant that arises suddenly a few hours before hospital admission. Initially, the pain was felt in the pit of the stomach area but then spreads to the lower right abdomen accompanied by nausea. There were no complaints of fever, vomiting or menstrual disorders. No abnormality of defecation and urination. On physical examination the patient looked ill, blood pressure 110/70 mm Hg, pulse rate 80 beats per minute, respiratory rate 16 minutes, with a body temperature of 36.3 o C. The point of pain was at Mc Burney accompanied by abdominal guarding.Blood test showed leukocytosis (14.600/uL). The patient on subsequently was diagnosed with acute appendicitis syndrome. On the same day, the patient underwent appendectomy surgery. After appendectomy, both the patient's condition, surgical wound was bandaged, and allowed patients to outpatient care of the fifth day. Patients were encouraged to control to Surgery Policlinic and get treatment in the form of Cefadroxyl 4 x 500 mg, Mefenamic Acid 3 x 500 mg and Antacids. The results of histopathology of appendix tissue showing a feature of perforation supurativa acute appendicitis. After 6 days appendectomy surgery, The patients presented with pain in the surgical site, progressive severe dispnea, chest tightness, and fever. The physical examination findings were notable for tachycardia, tachypnea, and a temperature of 37.8°C and there was pus coming from the surgical site. Arterial blood gas measurements performed while the patient was breathing room air were as follows: pH, 7.45; PaCO 2 , 34.6 mmHg; PaO 2 , 62.5 mm Hg; and arterial oxygen saturation, 92.5%. D Dimer was 3441.9 ng/ml, leukositosis 14,400/ mm 3 , and CRP >120. On chest radiograph there was pleuropneumonia with minimal efussion in right side. All of the clinical and supporting diagnosis findings tends towards the possibility of pulmonary emboli syndrome. A CT angiography scan of the chest and abdomen showed intralumen emboli in medial lobe segmen of right pulmonary artery, right pleuropneumonia with segmental lession in segmen 10 right lobe and inflammation process along right lateral wall of the abdomen. The pus culture showed E. Coli ESBL (+) sensitive to carbapenem. The Patient was given enoxaparin 40 mg sc twice daily and meropenem 1 gr three times daily. After eight days of treatment, patient was free from symptoms, no pus at the surgical site, CRP level was 6 mg/L, procalcitonin level was <0.05 µg/L, the blood culture sterile, and patient discharged from hospital.
