We report a case of a 48-year old female patient with progressive dyspnoea (NYHA III) after two episodes of pulmonary embolism. She was diagnosed with severe CTEPH (PAMP 57 mmHg, PVR 14 Wood units, Cardiac index 1.7 l/min/m 2 , multiple occlusions bilaterally on pulmonary angiography and multiple perfusion defects in both lungs on V/P scan) and was indicated for pulmonary endarterectomy. After median sternotomy, we established cardiopulmonary bypass and the patient was cooled down to 16.9°C. We crossclamped aorta and achieved cardiac arrest using crystalloid cardioplegia. We performed bilateral pulmonary endarterectomy from the right and left pulmonary incisions during three circulatory arrests (22 + 15 + 21 min) with 10 min reperfusion periods between individual circulatory arrests. The perioperative findings were in accordance with Jamieson class III . Weaning from the bypass was uneventful. The patient was extubated on Day 1 and was haemodynamically stable with sufficient cardiac output. On Day 3, milky pericardial effusion in mediastinal drain (50 ml/h) appeared. The fluid analysis demonstrated triglycerides of 420 mg/dl, white blood cell count of 880/ul (95.6% lymphocytes), and total proteins of 4.5 g/dl. On Day 5, we started conservative treatment. We inserted peripherally inserted central catheter line and began total parenteral nutrition to reduce fat input. The milky effusion turned to serous effusion; however, the amount of fluid production remained high (500–1000 ml/day). The chest X-ray was in accordance with normal postoperative image. On Day 15, the drain got obstructed and the patient started to show signs of cardiac tamponade. We inserted a pigtail catheter which immediately drained 40 ml of serous liquid and the patient's vital functions improved rapidly. Within 2 weeks after operation, the patient lost almost 12 kg of weight. We indicated surgical treatment. We first performed pedal lymphangiography which showed normal thoracic duct, no aberrant lymph vessels and collection of contrast liquid in the superior mediastinum . However, we did not identify the exact leakage point. On Day 20, we performed operation to treat the leaking lymph vessels. Three hours before the procedure, we applied lipids containing vitamin A via jejunal tube to increase the effusion. After median sternotomy, we found collection of cloudy fluid in the pericardium. We inspected surrounding tissues and in the left lobe of thymus we found the injured lymph vessel (2 mm in diameter), with the lymph leaking . We ligated the vessel and we also sutured and ligated the whole left lobe of thymus and sealed it with tissue glue . There were no signs of lymphatic effusion. The patient was transported in a haemodynamically stable condition to the ICU. After the procedure, there was minimal pericardial effusion. The drain was extracted on the first postoperative day and we started enteral nutrition. The patient was stable and was discharged from hospital 12 days after the lymph vessel ligation, 32 days after the pulmonary endarterectomy.
