A 9-year-old girl presented to the neurosurgery clinic with a 2year history of headache and swelling of the left cheek. The swelling was insidious in onset, gradually increasing in sizewith time and was associated with pain on movement of the jaw. Her clinical examination revealed a swelling over the left maxillary region which was soft in consistency, had a smooth surface and was associated with pain on palpation. Other organ functions were normal. Her 4-vessel cerebral digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed a high flow pial AVF supplied by the middle cerebral artery and draining into the basal vein of Rosenthal . Endovascular embolisation of the AVF under general anaesthesia was planned. Since deployment of Guglielmi detachable coils (GDC) into the fistulous sac was considered to entail the risk of distal migration into the vasculature, a decision was made to inject the glue into the fistulous sac with a proximal balloon inflation to achieve flow arrest . About 14 ml of 17 % NBCA was injected into the sac of the fistulae which resulted in complete occlusion of the sac with a good filling of the right middle cerebral artery. A few minutes later, the patient had tachycardia (164 beats/min), hypertension (160/100 mmHg) and ventricular ectopics. It was observed that the balloon used to arrest the flow had ruptured and resulted in embolisation of the glue distally into pulmonary circulation causing sudden haemodynamic instability. Pulmonary angiography revealed dense radio-opaque material occluding the pulmonary vasculature bilaterally. The patient was shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for further management of this non-thrombotic pulmonary embolism. In the ICU, the patient had sinus tachycardia with a heart rate of 140–150 beats/min and a respiratory rate of 30– 40 breaths/min. Her end-tidal carbon dioxide pressure (PetCO 2 ) was 18 mmHg with a corresponding PaCO 2 of 46.5 mmHg indicating an increase in the alveolar dead space. Her PaO 2 was 60.3 mmHg at an FiO 2 of 50 %. On neurological examination, the patient had a Glasgow coma scale of E 3 V T M 5 , no motor deficits and symmetrical pupils that were reacting to light. Mechanical ventilation was continued under intravenous sedation. Additionally, she was treated with anticoagulants, steroids and antibiotics. Anticoagulation was achieved with unfractionated heparin (15 U/kg/h) administered intravenously for 48 h, which was later changed to subcutaneous enoxaparin (40 mg/24 h) and finally to oral warfarin (2.5 mg/24 h). A transthoracic echocardiographic examination at 24 h following the pulmonary embolism revealed a mild tricuspid regurgitation and pulmonary artery hypertension with a pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) of 51 mmHg. Sildenafil citrate in a dose of 10 mg was administered three times daily to treat this pulmonary hypertension. The patient's haemodynamic instability began to improve on the second day. The heart rate improved to about 110– 120 beats/min while the blood pressure remained consistently around 110/70 mmHg. An improvement in the PetCO 2 was also observed from the initial 18 to 24–28 mmHg with a corresponding PaCO 2 of 40 mmHg over the next 2–3 days. A 2D echocardiogram, repeated at 72 h, after the event demonstrated an improvement in pulmonary hypertension with a PASP of 38 mmHg. On the fourth day, the patient developed polyuria with a urine output of 3 ml/kg/h. Serum and urine electrolytes and osmolality were, however, within normal limits. Her serum brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) was 155 pg/ml (normal, <15–50 pg/ml) which correlated with pulmonary hypertension and dilated right atrium. By the tenth post-procedure day, the patient's heart rate, blood pressure and respiratory rate returned to normal and the PaCO 2-PetCO 2 difference decreased to 6–8 mmHg, clearly indicating an improvement in the ventilation-perfusion match. Serum BNP decreased to 113 pg/ml, again suggesting an improvement in the pulmonary hypertension. Weaning from mechanical ventilation was initiated on the fourth post-procedure day, and the trachea was successfully extubated on the thirteenth day. Systemic and neurological monitoring was continued, and the patient was discharged from the hospital on the twenty-eighth day following the event. At the time of discharge from the hospital, the patient was conscious, oriented, obeying commands and had no sensory or motor deficits. She was haemodynamically stable with a resting heart rate of 90 beats/min, a blood pressure of 110/ A Bshowing pial arteriovenous fistula. b DSA showing glue within the fistula 70 mmHg, an oxygen saturation of 98 % on room air and a respiratory rate of 16–18 cycles/min. She was able to take oral diet and tolerate mobilisation at the bedside without any respiratory distress. The patient was followed up regularly for any cardiorespiratory symptoms. Sildenafil citrate and warfarin were continued, and she was investigated for any changes in pulmonary artery pressure by repeat echocardiocardiographic examinations. On follow-up at 3 months after discharge from the hospital, the child was active, was going to school and was able to perform strenuous exercise such as running. At 10 months post-pulmonary embolism, she was able to do cycling that has a metabolic equivalents of 6. Her arterial blood gases and 2-D echocardiographic findings shown in Tables 1 and 2 suggested a significant improvement in the cardiorespiratory dynamics. Surprisingly, her chest radiograph showed a gross resolution of the large branching opacities, which clearly explained the clinical improvement seen in the patient at the last follow-up.
