The patient was a 62 year-old Caucasian man with a long-standing history of essential hypertension and a 4year history of MM (IgG kappa subtype). The latter was diagnosed after suffering a T7 compression fracture. At that time, his kidney function was normal (serum creatinine: 0.9 mg/dL (79.56 μmol/L)) and his blood pressure was fairly well controlled on four agents (carvedilol extended-release 80 mg daily, diltiazem 60 mg three times daily, valsartan 320 mg daily and hydralazine 25 mg three times daily). As initial therapy for MM, he received melphalan for conditioning, four cycles of lenalidomide and dexamethasone, followed by autologous HSCT. Three months later, his kidney function remained within normal limits. He subsequently developed a few episodes of volume depletion associated with transient increases in serum creatinine level, after which his serum creatinine stabilized at a level of 1.4 mg/dL (123.76 μmol/L). Ten months after HSCT, he was started on bortezomib, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone (VCD) due to progression of MM. He received five cycles of VCD. His blood pressure remained fairly well controlled with no changes to his anti-hypertensive regimen. Fifteen months after the first HSCT and 1 month after completing VCD, he underwent a second autologous HSCT for relapse. This time, the hospital course was complicated with septic shock and a severe bout of AKI, with serum creatinine peaking at 7.4 mg/dL (654.16 μmol/L). After requiring four weeks of acute hemodialysis, he partially regained kidney function, ultimately being discharged from the hospital with a new baseline serum creatinine of 2.1 mg/dL (185.64 μmol/L). At the time of discharge, his antihypertensive regimen was modified to avoid blockade of the renin-angiotensin system in the setting of AKI. Accordingly, he was switched to hydralazine 50 mg three times daily, diltiazem extended-release 360 mg daily, metoprolol 200 mg twice daily and a clonidine patch 0.3 mg/24 h. Seventeen months after the second HSCT, a follow-up bone marrow biopsy specimen revealed persistent plasma cell infiltration. As a result, he was initiated on carfilzomib (20 mg/m 2 ; followed by 27 mg/m 2 , four weeks apart), thalidomide 100 mg daily and dexamethasone 20 mg per week. Six weeks after the initiation of chemotherapy, the patient developed abrupt worsening of lower extremity edema and his hypertension became more difficult to control. After being stable with four agents (hydralazine, diltiazem, metoprolol and clonidine) averaging a blood pressure of 142/74 mmHg during previous office visits, he presented with a blood pressure of 206/100 mmHg  ). In addition to his antihypertensives, he was also taking acyclovir, citalopram, esomeprazole, zolpidem, tramadol and aspirin. He required the addition of eplerenone 25 mg daily, nifedipine extended-release 90 mg daily and benazepril 30 mg daily, for a total of 7 antihypertensives. Despite the 7-drug combination, he remained hypertensive averaging 190/95 mmHg. A renal sonogram revealed a right kidney of 10.8 and a left kidney of 10.6 cm of longitudinal diameter with moderately increased cortical echogenicity. Following acute reduction of blood pressure with intravenous labetalol, an ultrasound-guided percutaneous kidney biopsy was performed to evaluate the newly developed overt proteinuria. Histological examination of the biopsy specimen on light microscopy disclosed 8 out of 17 globally sclerotic glomeruli, some mesangiolysis , moderate interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy, and severe arteriolar hyalinosis. There was no evidence of myeloma cast nephropathy. No thrombi were identified in the glomerular capillaries or arterioles. Congo red stain was negative. Immunofluorescence showed 4 out of 14 glomeruli with global sclerosis and one small artery that stained intensely for fibrin , C1q, IgM and C3. The corresponding H&Estained cryosection showed a thrombus in that artery. The specimen was negative for linear deposition of IgG or kappa along the glomerular and tubular basement membranes. Electron microscopy of one glomerulus showed diffuse foot process effacement, endothelial cell swelling and some loops with flocculent material between the endothelial cell and the glomerular basement membrane . There was no immune complex deposition or finely granular electron dense deposits along the glomerular or tubular basement membranes. In summary, the findings were consistent with TMA, glomerular podocytopathy, hypertensive-related injury and chronic scarring. After the results of the kidney biopsy were reviewed and discussed, carfilzomib was discontinued. Eight weeks later, proteinuria slightly improved to 1 gram on a 24 hour urine collection. His serum creatinine remained stable at 1.7 mg/dL (150.28 μmol/L) at that time. His arterial blood pressure improved significantly averaging 135/75 mmHg on 5 agents. Due to progression of MM and a joint decision of not pursuing further treatment, the patient died four months later.Abbreviations: LDH, lactate dehydrogenase; NA, not available; UPEP, urine protein electrophoresis.
