A 74-year-old man was admitted to our teaching hospital for an endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) procedure of an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). A computed tomography angiography (CTA)-scan of the abdomen showed a 5,5-cm infrarenal AAA. The anatomic and clinical suitability to perform an EVAR procedure was assessed multidisciplinary. Access to the right iliac artery was obtained via surgical exposure of the common femoral artery (CFA) and the left iliac artery was accessed percutaneously by ultrasoundguided puncture of the CFA. Hereafter, a Gore Excluder endoprothesis (C3 Excluder) was placed through the right iliac limb, with extension of the right and left iliac leg of the endoprothesis. Distal seal was obtained in the common iliacs. The hypogastric arteries were patent. 5000 IU of heparin was adjusted intravenously before the endovascular procedure was started. Because of a very narrow bifurcation, a patch was placed in the right origo of the profunda femoral artery and the superficial femoral artery. Unfortunately, no adequate haemostasis after suboptimal percutaneously closure on the left CFA (Prostar) was reached and a surgical exploration was performed, in which no major leakage was seen. A completion angiography confirmed a proper placement of the C3 Excluder without any form of endoleak. For postoperative surveillance, the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit. No further complications occurred during the first day. After one day, the patient developed heavy left-sided scrotal pains. A duplex ultrasound scan revealed minimal flow in his left testicular artery and also a central inhomogeneous aspect. This suggested a testicular infarction. Multidisciplinary team assessment with urologists, vascular surgeons and radiologists has determined that further treatment was not required. The first meeting since the hospitalization was with his vascular surgeon, some pain symptoms remained for which he received pain medication. A CTA-scan was made after the EVAR procedure which showed no endoleak or other complications. After several weeks, he returned to the urology department and he is free of symptoms. A testicular ultrasound was made, which showed limited effect of the recent infarction. This complication is most likely caused by an embolism in the arteria testicularis sinistra. The embolism has ended up in the left testicular artery probably by endovascular manipulation. Which led to the testicular infarction. During operation adequate heparin was adjusted; lowmolecular-weight heparin was given prophylactically, and after surgery antiplatelet medication (calcium carbasalate) was given. All the necessary precautions were drawn.
There is only one case report of a testicular embolism after EVAR, but in this case there was a ischaemic testicle which needed to be removed . EVAR is the first-choice treatment for many patients with AAA. This case shows that a rare complication of testicular infarction is possible.
