" John " is a 20-year-old Caucasian man who was removed from his parents' home by the Department of Children and Families (DCF) at age 5 years for neglect and was raised subsequently by his maternal grandparents. He was transferred to our psychiatric facility from an outside critical care unit after his aunt (maternal uncle's wife) brought him to the emergency department for hypotension and severe weakness. That was his third admission to a medical facility in two months. John stated that he began dieting and restricting his intake when he was age 12 years old, but it was not until one year prior to our admission at age 19 that he was finally diagnosed with AN. His meals often consisted of a pop tart for breakfast, a biscuit and half a bologna sandwich for lunch, and about 1-2 ounces of meat for dinner. He would restrict his caloric intake to about 1000 kilocalories (kcals) per day. John also reported that he had a habit of persistently walking or elevating his arms while he walked at home to burn more calories. He denied binging or purging, and denied laxative abuse or use of diet pills. Prior to admission, John was medically hospitalized three times in two months, the first time for a pericardial effusion and cardiac tamponade that was treated surgically with an open window pericardiocentesis. The second hospitalization was for elevated liver enzymes and the third for monitoring in the critical care unit due to hypoglycemia, hypotension, and bradycardia. During the third hospitalization, John's heart rate (HR) was 46 and his blood pressure (BP) was 85/64, which improved to a BP of 101/72 and a HR of 53 after receiving IV fluids. At that time he weighed 80.8 pounds and was 5 feet 8 inches tall, which resulted in a body mass index (BMI) of 12.3 kg/m 2. Laboratory results during that hospitalization showed ALT of 614 and AST of 112, amylase of 69, potassium of 3.1, and thyroid function tests were within normal limits. His albumin level was 2.6, protein level was 4.6, glucose was 65, BUN was 3, creatinine was 0.4, alkaline phosphatase was 99, and calcium was 8.1. John's hepatitis screen was negative and a biopsy of the liver showed reticuloendothelial (kupffer cells) iron overload, perivenular central sclerosis, and no atypical features seen. This pattern of iron overload is generally related to exogenous iron overload. No appreciable fatty changes or inflammation were seen on the biopsy. John also had a CT scan of the abdomen that showed moderate ascites and minimal gallbladder thickening, most likely the presence of ascites. Due to his cognitive changes, a head CT had been performed. John's head CT showed cortical sulci that were much too prominent for a patient of his age. The cerebellum showed some prominence of the cerebella folia, and the brain appeared atrophic in appearance, as in the case of a very " dehydrated " brain. There were no focal abnormalities, no infarctions, hemorrhages, or masses seen, and no extracerebral fluid collection. The radiology report indicated possible reasons for the changes as drugs, alcohol, dehydration, and nutritional factors. During the third hospitalization, John received a blood transfusion, which improved his hemoglobin (8.6 to 12.7) and hematocrit (25.2% to 37.4%) significantly. His medications included multivitamin, folic acid, vitamin B1, Zinc, mirtazapine 15mg at bedtime, Benefiber, and bisacodyl.
