The data and photographs for this report study were collected from the medical charts of the Departments of Pediatrics, University of Basel, Bern and Zurich, the Departments of Pediatrics and Dermatology of Southern Switzerland, and the family doctors. An interview with the patients was carried out . Mother. A 43-year-old Swiss woman had been treated by one of the authors for recurrent episodes of non-thrombocytopenic skin lesions occurring over her extremities, ears and face. Lesions included large, red-to-purpuric, non-pruriginous and tender plaques. History-taking revealed that some lesions probably developed at birth. The condition relapsed approximately every 2 months in early childhood and adolescence, always preceded by a simple airway illness or a diarrheal disease. Once she reached adulthood, the recurrence rate decreased substantially to approximately once a year. The disorder also recurred during her 3 otherwise uneventful pregnancies. The exanthemata were not associated with arthralgia, abdominal pain, macroscopic stool bleeding or urine discoloration. Since stool guaiac testing for occult blood was slightly positive on no more than one occasion, no gastrointestinal endoscopy studies were performed. During a recent interview, the patient reported that her grandmother had probably presented a similar recurrent skin disease in childhood. However, there was no family history of recurrent severe infections or bleeding disorders. Son 1. The woman delivered a boy vaginally at term in the cephalic position, with a body weight of 2.73 kg and with no perinatal or neonatal disease indicators. Physical examination at birth disclosed purpuric swollen patches over his hands, a purpuric patch en cockade with a diameter of approximately 1 cm over the left ankle, and some facial petechiae. His stool was bright red and guaiac-positive. Although no test was performed to differentiate maternal from foetal blood, the diagnosis of maternal blood ingestion, the commonest cause of neonatal bloody stool, was made. Two days after birth, poor feeding and poor peripheral perfusion were reported. Blood cultures were found to be positive for Escherichia coli and coagulase-negative staphylococci. A suspected diagnosis of neonatal sepsis was made and parenteral antimicrobials were administered. The skin lesions progressively improved within 5 days and no further intestinal bleeding was observed. At the age of 2 months, nonpruriginous, tender, target-like plaques appeared over the right cheek and the right leg in the infant, who was doing well 3 days after the first vaccination. The lesions resolved within 3 days. Furthermore, often febrile (rectal temperature ≥ 39.5°C) recurrences developed at the age of 4, 6, 13, 14 and 19 months, mostly preceded by an airway or diarrheal disease. Recurrences were also noted at the age of 4 and 13 years .Son 2. The woman's second child, a boy, was born vaginally in the 35 th gestational week, with a body weight of 2.76 kg and without perinatal or neonatal disease indicators. Oedematous painful skin lesions with central petechiae expanding centrifugally to assume a polycyclic configuration on both hands, feet, on the back and on the penis were noted at birth. The child was non-toxic in appearance and the skin lesions resolved spontaneously 4 days later. A first relapse was observed at the age of 10 months after an upper respiratory illness. The skin lesions persisted for approximately 3 weeks, probably because the airway disease was followed by a diarrheal one. Two relapses were noted at the age of 2 and 12 years, characterized by extremely painful plaques. Son 3. The third son was born, like his brothers, without perinatal or neonatal disease indicators. Physical examination at birth disclosed painful oedematous target-like lesions on his hands, feet, cheeks, ears and extremities. The rash resolved spontaneously a few days later. A first relapse occurred at the age of 4 months, a few days after his second vaccination. By the age of 8 years, approximately 6 further relapses had occurred. Laboratory investigations. Laboratory testing failed to disclose thrombocytopenia, coagulation disorders (by prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time), immunoglobulin (Ig)M rheumatoid factor antibodies, anti-neutrophil or anti-nuclear autoantibodies and pathologically reduced C3 and C4 complement levels (this investigation was not performed in son 3). Furthermore, urinalysis did not reveal proteinuria or haematuria, either during or between attacks. A skin biopsy, performed exclusively in son 1, revealed arterioles infiltrated with neutrophils whose nuclei were partly fragmented and pycnotic (no immunofluorescence study was performed).
