We report a case of a 34-year-old single Chinese lady, first seen in 2009 after being referred to us by a gynaecology colleague, with presenting symptoms of progressive abdominal distension for 1 month. Further history noted that she had symmetrical polyarthritis in both upper and lower limbs, associated with facial rash, and Raynaud's phenomenon for 6 months. She denied any fever, significant weight loss or altered bowel habit. There were no oral ulcers and no alopecia. Physical examination showed presence of gross ascites with bilateral lower zone pleural effusions but with mild bilateral lower limb oedema. She also had Raynaud's phenomenon involving bilateral upper and lower extremities, tight skin over all fingers up to the metacarpal–phalangeal joints, and mild telangiectasias over the face. Laboratory examinations showed normochromic– normocytic anaemia, with haemoglobin 10.8 g/dl, white blood cells 6.5 Â 10 9 /l and platelets 426 Â 10 9 /l. She had a markedly elevated ESR of 109 mm/h, with slightly raised CRP at 8.2 mg/dl. Liver function test revealed hypoalbuminaemia (24 g/l) and hyperglobulinaemia (60 g/l). Other liver enzymes were normal. Renal and thyroid function tests were both normal. Urine examination did not show any proteinuria or haematuria. Serology profiles demonstrated low complement for both C3 and C4 (0.51 g/l and 0.07 g/l, respectively). She had positive rheumatoid factor (RF) of 139 IU/ml and positive ANA (1:1280 speckled). Anti-Ro and anti-U1 ribonucleoprotein (RNP) were positive (>240 IU/ml). Anti-dsDNA and ANCA were negative for this patient. Screening for tumour markers showed markedly elevated CA-125 at 1613.8 IU/ml. Diagnostic peritoneal paracentesis showed exudative fluid with high protein (44 g/l), occasional lymphocytes and no bacterial growth. Fluid cytology reported presence of reactive mesothelial cells, and three samples of fluid for acid-fast bacilli (AFB) direct smear showed negative results. Her Mantoux test was non-reactive. Radiologic examinations, including plain radiograph of the chest, showed presence of bilateral pleural effusion, with no cardiomegaly. Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis showed bilateral pleural effusion, ascites and gut oedema. The initial report gave differentials of gut tuberculosis or carcinomatosis deposits. However, gastroscopy and colonoscopy showed normal results. A diagnostic laparoscopy and biopsy were done, which showed two nodules on the uterus. Biopsy of the nodule showed uterine leiomyoma. Unfortunately, the patient developed respiratory distress due to recurrent pleural effusion. She was intubated and required ventilator support. Intercostal tube drainages were inserted bilaterally.Pleural fluid was exudative in nature. Culture and sensitivity did not yield any growth. Pleural fluid was sent for tuberculosis polymerase chain reaction (TB-PCR) and the result was negative. Atypical cells were demonstrated on pleural biopsy. Trans-thoracic echocardiography showed normal chambers and normal valves, with estimated ejection fraction >60%. There was no evidence of pericardial effusion. Computed tomography of the pulmonary artery showed no evidence of pulmonary embolism. The patient was diagnosed as having MCTD, with features of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and scleroderma (SCL). Extensive investigations with the involvement of surgical and gynaecology colleagues did not show features of intra-abdominal infections (such as TB infections) or intra-abdominal malignancy. The recurrent pleural effusion and ascites were thought to be due to active serositis secondary to SLE. The patient was pulsed with intravenous methylprednisolone 500 mg daily (OD) for 3 days, followed by oral prednisolone 30 mg OD, with subsequent tapering dosage. She responded to treatment remarkably well, with resolution of pleural effusion and ascites. In addition, ESR, C3/C4 and CA-125 parameters normalized after 6 weeks of hospital stay. During subsequent visits and follow-up, she showed progressive improvement, with clinical and biochemical remission for her SLE. Features of SCL (Raynaud's, skin tightening and telangiectasia) persisted, although they remained stable. Her repeat echocardiography in September 2013 showed preserved cardiac function, with no evidence of pulmonary hypertension. Her prednisolone dosage was tapered gradually. On latest review in November 2014, the patient's medications included: oral aspirin 75 mg OD, oral hydroxychloroquine 200 mg OD, oral amlodipine 5 mg OD, oral pentoxifylline 400 mg three times a day (TDS), oral calcitriol 0.25 mg twice a day (BD), oral calcium carbonate 500 mg OD and oral folate 5 mg OD.
