A previously healthy 4-year-old boy presents for evaluation of a unilateral nose bleed refractory to compression lasting for 1.5 hours. He has had episodes of epistaxis in the past secondary to nasal manipulation but none this severe. Three weeks ago he had a runny nose and congestion, which are now resolved. His family denies vision changes, headaches, nausea, hematuria, dysuria, any known ingestions, or any skin flushing. There is no history of bleeding disorders in his family. On physical examination he is afebrile, with a heart rate of 121 beats per minute, a respiratory rate of 24 breaths per minute, a right arm blood pressure of 200/130 mm Hg, and an oxygen saturation of 99% on room air. His weight is 17 kg (50th percentile) and height is 112 cm (95th percentile). He appears well and has normal physical examination findings, with the exception of an abdominal bruit and barely palpable femoral pulses. Initial laboratory results are as follows: white blood cell count, 21,900/mL (21.9 Â 10 9 /L); absolute neutrophil count, 18,400/mL (18.4 Â 10 9 /L); absolute lymphocyte count, 2100/mL (2.1 Â 10 9 /L); hemoglobin, 9.9 g/dL (99 g/L); platelet count, 324 Â 10 3 /mL (324 Â 10 9 /L); mean corpuscular volume, 85 fL; red blood cell distribution width, 13.5%; an unremarkable peripheral blood smear; urea nitrogen, 45 mg/dL (16.1 mmol/L); creatinine, 1.39 mg/dL (123 mmol/L); and normal serum electrolyte levels. The results of thyroid function studies, coagulation profile, and urinalysis are normal. Renal ultrasonography with Doppler and head computed tomography results are interpreted as normal. Electrocardiography suggests left ventricular hypertrophy, and echocardiography reveals left ventricular hypertrophy. An additional imaging study helps establish the suspected diagnosis. Abdominal ultrasonography revealed a long segment of abdominal aortic narrowing, involving the mesenteric and renal arteries (initial renal ultrasonography result was interpreted as normal), consistent with a diagnosis of midaortic syndrome (MAS).Potisek, Puri, Schlaudecker, Newman, Notario, and Nagpal have disclosed no financial relationships relevant to this article. This commentary does not contain a discussion of an unapproved/investigative use of a commercial product/device. may be asymptomatic in chronic processes. For this reason, blood pressure monitoring should begin on all children 3 years and older at every physician visit. Most pediatric hypertension cases are secondary to underlying renal, cardiac, urologic, endocrine, and neoplastic conditions. Approximately 10% of cases are secondary to renovascular anomalies, with renal artery stenosis accounting for most of these cases.
On arrival, antihypertensive therapy was initiated for our patient. He was initially administered a nicardipine drip and clonidine patch with the goal of maintaining a higher systemic blood pressure to ensure adequate perfusion of his kidneys in the setting of acute kidney injury. Unfortunately, the patient became oliguric and developed progressively worsening renal failure, ultimately requiring hemodialysis. He subsequently developed respiratory failure and was intubated. After identifying MAS as the underlying cause of his hypertension, he was transferred to a facility experienced in surgical correction of this condition and underwent bilateral renal revascularization. Two months after surgical repair, he is normotensive and not taking any antihypertensive medications.
A 5-year-old boy is referred for a significantly elevated white blood cell count of 40,000/mL (40.0 Â 10 9 /L), with 76% eosinophils (absolute eosinophil count of 30,400 /mL ), 16% neutrophils, and 7% lymphocytes, and normal hemoglobin and platelet levels. The environmental health clinic has been monitoring his persistently elevated blood lead levels for the previous 6 months, with levels ranging from 10.4 mg/dL to 12.8 mg/dL (0.50–0.62 mmol/L). The environmental health clinic had ordered the complete blood cell count to evaluate for anemia. There is no history of weight loss, loss of appetite, cough, loose stools, photophobia, rash, focal respiratory symptoms, or cardiovascular symptoms. The patient's mother reports that the child has occasional abdominal pain and intermittent low-grade fevers. He was born prematurely (28 weeks) and had a brief stay in the neonatal intensive care unit for feeding difficulties. The mother also reports that the child has behavioral issues, notably head-banging, hand-to-mouth behaviors, and pica. There is no significant family or travel history. His twin has an elevated blood lead level but a normal complete blood cell count. They have a pet dog and cat; he frequently plays in the dirt and in a sandbox at his daycare. On physical examination, the patient has nonfocal examination findings, pertinently negative for any lymphadenopathy, rash, abnormal pigmentation, masses or lumps, or evidence of malnutrition. Laboratory findings include a normal serum electrolyte level and a uric acid level of 2.9 mg/dL (170.6 mmol/L), mildly elevated lactate dehydrogenase (1090 IU/L), normal IgE (97 IU/mL), and a stool specimen negative for ova and parasites. A T-cell receptor test result for V b (variable segments of the b chain of T-cell receptor) expression is negative for monoclonality and, hence, for hematologic malignant neoplasms. His chest radiographic findings are normal. The results of computed tomography of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis are normal; echocardiography reveals no evidence of eosinophilic myocarditis. Additional evaluation reveals the cause of his eosinophilia.
An infectious diseases consultant recommended serologic testing for Toxocara and ophthalmologic examination by slitlamp to rule out ophthalmologic larva migrans (OLM). The Toxocara serologic test (IgG by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) result was positive, with titers of 0.304 optical density (OD) at presentation (reference range, 0–0.299 OD). Ophthalmologic examination did not reveal evidence of OLM. Our patient's condition may be classified into either an asymptomatic or covert form based on his symptoms of abdominal pain. The significant eosinophilia and the high titers of anti-Toxocara antibodies prompted treatment to prevent complications. He was prescribed mebendazole therapy, 100 mg twice daily for 5 days, because albendazole was not available at his pharmacy. A follow-up white blood cell count 4 weeks later was significantly improved at 10,000/mL (10.0 Â 10 9 /L), with 22% eosinophils and an absolute eosinophil count of 2230//mL (22.3 Â 10 9 /L).
), 28% lymphocytes, and 58% neutrophils. We never positively identified the source of the infection but strongly suspected the sandbox at the daycare. The cats getting into it were strays, and the family and the health department tried to convince the owner to cover the sandbox when not in use, but without effect. Ultimately, the children stopped going to that daycare. The pets were never tested or treated. Unfortunately, the health department jurisdiction where the case occurred has a limited budget for enforcement activities related to environmental health.
A 3-month-old full-term girl with trisomy 21 presents to the gastroenterology clinic with progressive feeding intolerance. For the past 3 weeks, she has had large nonbloody spit-ups after every feed, either formula colored or light brown in appearance. She has a normal appetite and does not appear to be distressed after spit-ups. Her parents report that she previously tolerated 3 oz of formula every 3 hours. She has been stooling regularly without diarrhea and has no other signs of illness. Birth weight was 3.85 kg (80th percentile). She has a history of a small ventricular septal defect and congenital bilateral clubfoot. Physical examination reveals a well-appearing girl with typical Down syndrome dysmorphic features. Her temperature is 37.2°C, pulse is 89 beats per minute, respiratory rate is 22 breaths per minute, blood pressure is 97/56 mm Hg, and oxygen saturation is 97% on room air. Her perfusion is normal. She currently weighs 3.93 kg (less than the third percentile), her length is 57.5 cm (25th percentile), and her head circumference is 39 cm (25th percentile). She has normal heart sounds with a 2/6 systolic murmur over the left sternal border. Her abdomen is soft, nondistended, and nontender with normal bowel sounds. There are no abdominal masses or hepatomegaly. She has normal female external genitalia without lesions or hernias. The result of a basic electrolyte panel is normal. A pyloric ultrasonography result is normal. An upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract series reveals distension of the stomach and duodenal bulb with a transition point at the level of the proximal duodenum and gastric stasis with reflux of residual gastric contents. Surgical exploration reveals the ultimate diagnosis.
Exploratory laparotomy revealed an annular pancreas, causing extrinsic duodenal compression. The patient underwent duodenal duodenostomy from which she recovered well and subsequently tolerated oral feeds.
