A 42-year-old pediatrician comes to the clinic for blood work that showed the presence of a monoclonal protein. She was in her usual state of health but developed recurrent sinus infections over the course of a year, and she attributed it to her exposure to sick children in the hospital. During her routine evaluations, her protein level was found to be elevated at 9.5 g/dL (range, 6.0-8.0 g/dL). Her physician ordered a serum protein electrophoresis that showed an immunoglobulin (Ig)A k paraprotein of 3.5 g/dL. She indicates that she feels well and has no bone pain, fevers, or weight loss. Her blood counts reveal a normal complete blood count and differential and normal creatinine and calcium levels. Her k light chains were elevated, and the ratio was 30. Her IgG and IgM levels were suppressed. She underwent further workup that revealed no lytic lesions on the skeletal survey, and her magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed no focal lesions. A bone marrow biopsy was performed that showed that 30% of the cellularity was comprised of plasma cells occurring singly and in small clusters and sheets. Flow cytometry demonstrated the presence of CD38, CD138, and CD56 1 cells with excess cytoplasmic k light chain staining in 95% of the plasma cells classified as abnormal plasma cells by immunophenotyping. Cytogenetics and fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed gain of chromosome 1q.For personal use only. on April 6, 2017. by guest www.bloodjournal.org From occur in the tumor clone or in the surrounding bone marrow microenvironment that allow disease progression from early stages of MGUS to SMM to active symptomatic disease. The " clonal evolution " model of cancer emerged amid ongoing advances in technology, especially in recent years. Next-generation sequencing has provided ever-higher resolution pictures of the genetic changes in cancer cells and heterogeneity in tumors where tumor progression proceeds in a branching rather than in a linear manner, leading to substantial clonal diversity and coexistence of wide genetic heterogeneity MM 1,2,6,7 . Recent studies have shown intraclonal heterogeneity that occurs at different stages of progression in MM. 8,9 A study 10 of 4 patients with MGUS and another 3 patients with paired samples of SMM and overt MM from the same patients showed that both SMM and overt MM contain many subclones at low frequencies. The initiating events that lead to transformation of the plasma cells to malignant plasma cells is driven via the acquisition of a chromosomal translocation into the Ig loci or hyperdiploidy. 4,11 These are considered founder genetic changes and are present in all clones. Secondary alterations then occur, which allow certain subclones to be fit for further progression and proliferation. An international workshop assembled to review cytogenetic studies to evaluate whether MGUS and SMM cases have the same detectable anomalies that are often found in MM. 12 Point mutations such as N-RAS, K-RAS, MYC upregulation, 13 and gain or loss of chromosome 1q or 1p seem to correlate with disease progression from MGUS and SMM. 14 Our patient indeed had gain of chromosome 1q, indicating that she may have more rapid progression. A progressive increase in the incidence of copy number abnormalities from MGUS to SMM and to MM has been recently observed. 15 Although MM has more copy number abnormalities than its precursor states, MGUS is as genetically aberrant as MM and does not appear to be associated with a particular chromosomal imbalance. 15 Therefore, MM represents an expansion of altered clones that are already present in early precursor stages. 15 Among the factors contributing to progression from MGUS to SMM to MM could be the average total number of point mutations, as it increments from MGUS to MM. Therefore, the transformation from MGUS/SMM to MM is likely to be an essential feature of clonal evolution and disease progression. 10,16 The role of epigenetic regulators such as DNA methylation or histone modification is not well known in SMM. Aberrant promoter methylation has been described in MM. 17-21 Specifically, p16 methylation represents one of the epigenetic aberrations that contribute to MM disease progression. 22 Other studies of noncoding RNAs such as micro RNAs (miRNAs) have shown significant differences between MGUS and MM patients. In the vast majority of tumors, miRNAs are downregulated in clonal cells, thus suggesting their ability to act as tumor suppressors. 23-26 Pichiorri et al 27 profiled the expression of miRNAs from MGUS and MM patients and found miRNA-32 and the miRNA-17-92 cluster, including miRNA-19a and-19b, were significantly upregulated in MM and not in MGUS. A recent study showed that circulating miRNA could also be used for the prognosis of patients with MGUS and progression to MM. 28 Although many factors regulating tumor growth are tumor cell autonomous, they are insufficient to induce dissemination and progression, and a permissive microenvironment is required for frank malignancy to emerge. 29 A similar concept occurs in MM where the transition from MGUS to MM involves changes that occur due to the complex interaction of the malignant plasma cells with the microenvironment . These include upregulation of osteoblast receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL) expression and a decrease in osteoprotegerin, a decoy for RANKL that inhibits osteoclast differentiation. 30,31 Interestingly, although lytic bone lesions are not seen in MGUS, the RANKL/osteoprotegerin ratio is higher in MGUS subjects, and they are at a higher risk of fractures than healthy controls. 32 The interaction between MM cells and bone marrow stromal cells triggers nuclear factor-kB signaling pathway and interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion by stromal cells (MSCs) and in turn vascular endothelial growth factor secretion by MM cells creating a paracrine loop that is optimal for MM growth. 33 A recent study has shown the MSCs secrete specific exosomes that modulate the tumor clone, leading to rapid dissemination and tumor progression. 34 In MM, increased angiogenesis of the bone marrow involves a . Clonal evolution in a permissive microenvironment. Progression from MGUS to SMM to symptomatic MM involves clonal evolution and heterogeneity, which is not only cell autonomous but also dependent on the interactions of the tumor cells with the bone marrow microenvironment. This includes immune cells such as T-regulatory cells (Tregs), myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), natural killerFor personal use only. on April 6, 2017. by guest www.bloodjournal.org From complex interplay of proangiogenic and antiangiogenic molecules induced by plasma cells within the bone marrow microenvironment, with eventual balance tipped in favor of an " angiogenic switch, " as the disease transitions to MM from preceding MGUS and SMM. 35 In a prospective clinical trial, microvessel density was low in samples of bone marrow obtained from patients with MGUS and increased in those with SMM and MM. In addition, several cytokines and growth factors have been implicated in myeloma pathogenesis and transition from MGUS to overt MM. 36 Finally, an important step in the progression of tumors is evasion and suppression of the host immune system. There is an active immune response during the early stages of tumor growth in MGUS, which controls the growth but does not fully eliminate the tumor clone. As tumor growth progresses to the stages of SMM and active MM, there are associated cellular and humoral immune deficiencies, 37 indicating that the evolution of disease in MM is associated with an immunosuppressive milieu that fosters immune escape.
