A 59-year-old Japanese man with a history of hypertension presented with a complaint of fever and watery diarrhea. He climbed mountains, got lost accidentally and drunk 2 l of fresh water in the swamp in Okinawa, Japan 2 weeks prior to admission. Physical examinations showed blood pressure 129/ 89 mmHg, heart rate 112/min, respiratory rate 30/min, temperature of 38.5 C and oxygen saturation of 97% on room air. His bilateral palpebral conjunctivas were significantly injected with jaundice. The patient had tenderness to bilateral thighs and lower legs.
shows the laboratory data on admission. He was admitted to our intensive care unit for severe sepsis and significant hypokalemia. He was also started on ceftriaxone 1 g intravenously every 12 h and levofloxacin 250 mg intravenously every 24 h with a working diagnosis of leptospirosis given his travel history and fresh water exposure. Two hours after administration of ceftriaxone, he started to have shaking chills and fever of 40 C. Systolic blood pressure decreased to 80 mmHg, and diffuse maculopapular skin rash appeared on the trunk and upper and lower extremities. He was immediately intubated and resuscitated with fluids and vasopressors vigorously. At the bedside, this reaction was thought to be most likely Jarisch–Herxheimer reaction, not septic shock due to different organisms. The patient got stabilized successfully. The serum taken on admission was sent to the National Institute of Infectious Diseases in Japan, and leptospirosis due to Leptospira kirschneri serovar Grippotyphosa was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction and serology.need to expect this reaction in advance. This reaction is an important reminder for clinicians. Although not common in Japan, the increasing incidence of leptospirosis is an important public health problem. Leptospirosis requires prompt diagnosis and treatment to prevent adverse outcomes. It is necessary to manage patients with potentially fatal illness. Leptospirosis is one of the top differential diagnoses among febrile patients with a travel history to Okinawa, Japan. Thorough history taking of exposure to fresh water while traveling would help focus on differential diagnosis among patients returned from endemic areas. This case provides an instructive reminder to clinicians to consider leptospirosis among patients with a travel history to Okinawa, Japan, and Jarisch–Herxheimer reaction when managing patients with leptospirosis.
