A 57-year-old male patient presented in the emergency department complaining of weight loss during the last month, anorexia, low back pain and fever. Clinical examination revealed a temperature over 38 o C and tenderness along the lumbar vertebrae. Auscultation of the thorax was unremarkable, and palpation of the abdomen revealed no tenderness. Th e laboratory investigations showed high infl ammation markers in the serum (white blood count 15,700/μL and CRP 15 mg/dL). Th e patient was haemodynamically stable. His medical history revealed only chronic obstructive pulmonary disease under no corticosteroid treatment and arterial hypertension under treatment. A computed tomography (CT) imaging study with intravenous contrast was ordered that demonstrated a 4 cm wide saccular aneurysm of the infrarenal abdominal aorta without obvious signs of rupture, surrounded by infl ammatory tissue, and an erosion of the L3 vertebra with a concomitant prevertebral abscess.  Empirical intravenous antibiotic therapy was initiated (cefazolin 2g/day and metronidazole 1,5g/day). Th e patient underwent full cardiologic evaluation and a cardiac ultrasonography examination, where no signs of endocarditis were observed. Th e decision making on the management was based on the presence of a contaminated area, namely the large prevertebral abscess that could jeopardise the placement of a graft during open treatment. Th e basic intention was to proceed with an endovascular repair (EVAR) as a bridging measure until the patient will need to be operated. Th erefore, the patient was treated with endovascular repair of the IAA (tube endograft placement in the operation room under direct vision with a C arm device; ). Based on the presence of wide proximal and landing zones on CT images  as well as the intention of a potential future explantation, a tube endograft with infrarenal fi xation was selected, although this is not precisely according to the instructions for use. A puncture of the abscess under computing the prevertebral abscess due to L3 spondylitis and the adjacent infective aortic aneurysm (transverse view). postoperative days, and cultures of the aspired material and blood samples were ordered as well . All clinical and plasma infl ammatory markers were normalised aft er a few days of antibiotic treatment. Th e culture of the aspired material and blood samples revealed Leclercia adecarboxylata that was sensitive to most broad-spectrum antibiotics. Th e postoperative course of the patient was unremarkable and he was discharged under oral antibiotic therapy aft er one week (Amoxycillin/clavulanic acid according to antibiogram for 6 weeks). Th e duration of oral antibiotic therapy was determined aft er consultation with our experts in infectious diseases. One year aft er, the patient remains afebrile, without signs of recurrence, and he has returned fully to his previous activities.
