We report a case of a 32-year-old woman, smoker, with a BMI 20 (weight:55 kg, height: 166 cm) and a personal history of 4 years of primary sterility due to endometriosis with failure after one IVF cycle, and surgical history of two uncomplicated laparoscopic ovarian cystectomies and appendectomy. A 4 cm endometrioma on the left ovary was recently diagnosed; therefore a new laparoscopic procedure was suggested to improve the success rate of a new IVF cycle and also to improve patient's symptoms such as dyspareunia, dysmenorrea and hypermenorrhea. The pneumoperitoneum was carefully created at the first attempt through Veress needle insertion at Palmer's point without experiencing any difficulties. When introducing the camera, moderate hemperitoneum was noticed on the left flank and pelvis, without a clear origin. After aspiration of haematic content and irrigation with physiological saline, bleeding ceased spontaneously, assuming then that the origin was possibly a lesion of an omental vessel. The patient maintained haemodynamic stability throughout the whole process. Surgery continued: left ovarian cystectomy was performed and endometriosic nodule was removed at the level of the left uterosacral ligament. After surgery, patient was transferred to gynaecological postoperative ward in good general health status. Thirty-six hours post-surgery, while the patient was performing a flexion movement of the lower limbs, an acute and intense feeling of pain began, associated with the extension movement of her left lower limb radiating to lumbar area. After neurological examination, neurological pathology was ruled out and symptoms were related to mechanical muscle pain due to lithotomy posture used during surgery. * Correspondence: jjimenez.hdoc@salud.madrid.org Gynecological Endoscopy Unit, Obstetrics and Gyneacology Service, University Hospital 12 de Octubre, Avda Cordoba s/n 28041, Madrid, Spain Due to the lack of good pain control in the first 48 hours, an abdominopelvic computed tomography (CT) scan was performed, describing a psoas left muscle haematoma with an image consistent with a pseudoaneurysm of 2,3 × 2,5 × 1,5 cm, on its medial border, at the anatomic level of L4, most probably depending on the lumbar artery . The study was completed by an electromyography (EMG), being diagnosed with left femoral and left femoral cutaneous nerve compression injury. Initially, an expectant management was agreed among the Vascular Surgery, Interventional Radiology and Neurology services aimed at controlling clinical symptoms by means of medical treatment and physical therapy, and by imaging-monitoring the progress of the haematoma. After one month of conservative management without any significant or functional clinical improvement, the patient was reassessed by a new CT scan, which showed a slight increase in the size of the pseudoaneurysm (2,5 × 2,5 cm). After reassessing the case together with the Vascular Surgery and Interventional Radiology services, an arteriography of the left lumbar artery and its subsequent embolisation were performed. A CT Angiogram after 30 days proved vascular leakage, therefore a second successful embolisation was done (Figures 2 and 3). During the follow-up, the patient needed various drugs in order to achieve pain control, including opioids. Six months after the onset of the clinical figure, the need for analgesia had progressively decreased, and one year after, only certain discomfort persists with no need for analgesic medication; therefore the patient has been discharged from Pain Control Clinic. From the neurological point of view, and after the completion of the physical therapy, a significant but incomplete improvement in strength is noticed (on physical examination the strength in psoas, quadriceps and adductor muscles is 4/5), the patient is able to walk between 30 and 60 minutes without feeling any pain, and passive movements are preserved but no ability to actively elevate lower limb during extension above 20° is observed. Therefore, the stage of sequelaehas not yet been overcome. In terms of gynaecological recovery, both clinical and ultrasound examination became normal and the patient wishes to initiate a new IVF cycle. The EMG shows a significant recovery of the nerve injury and CT scan demonstrates a complete resolution of the haematoma .
