A 66-year-old man with a history of oropharyngeal cancer was referred to our hospital due to purulent sputum that had persisted for the past 2 weeks and an abnormal shadow in the lower field of the right lung on a chest radiograph . Chest CT showed a 5-cm diameter mass with distinct areas of low attenuation inside . The level of C-reactive protein was elevated (10.2 mg/dL). The patient was admitted with the diagnosis of lung abscess and treated with the intravenous administration of ampicillin/sulbactam. On the 7 th hospital day, his body temperature was elevated, and pleural effusion and atelectasis of the right lower lobe was observed . Thoracic drainage showed purulent effusion. Pseudomonas aeruginosa was identified in the sputum culture, and antibiotics were changed to the combination of tazobactam/piperacillin and amikacin. On the 16 th hospital day, the patient was afebrile with decreased serum C-reactive protein levels of 2.78 mg/dL; however, he started to expectorate hemosputum, and his pleural effusion became bloody. Enhanced thoracic CT scan taken on the 29 th hospital day showed a highly enhanced mass inside the abscess in the right lower lobe . CT using MPR images and volume renderings demonstrated that the enhanced mass inside the lung abscess was fed by the pulmonary artery, suggesting PAA/PAP (Figs. 2B and 2C). Because of his poor condition, the patient was considered unfit for surgical resection; therefore, non-invasive embolization of the pulmonary artery was performed on the 40 th hospital day. Pulmonary angiography demonstrated the PAA/PAP in the right lower Chest radiograph (A) and computed tomography (CT) scan (B) upon admission. The chest radiograph shows a consolidation in the lower field of the right lung (A), and the CT image reveals a 5-cm diameter mass with areas of low attenuation inside (B). Pleural effusion and atelectasis in the lower lobe of the right lung appeared on day 7 (C).(arrowhead) in the lung abscess, which was revealed to be fed by the pulmonary artery on volume-rendering CT angiography (C; arrow). lobe of the lung . The embolization was performed with 4 total Interlock TM detachable coils (Boston Scientific Corp., Natick, MA, USA) in the proximal part of the right A8 portion as the feeding artery of the PAA/PAP . Because no other feeding artery was identified, proximal embolization of the single feeding artery was thought to be sufficient; total packing of the aneurysm was not recommended. Two days after the embolization, a collapsed aneurysm in the right lower lobe was confirmed on CT scan (Figs. 3C and 3D). After the coil embolization, both the patient's bloody sputum and pleural effusion had disappeared until he died one month later due to an incidental aspiration.
