In January 2012, a 79-year-old man with a history of chronic heart failure secondary to atrial fibrillation presented with acute low back pain. One year earlier, he was hospitalised for idiopathic interstitial pneumonia, which was resolved with prednisolone (5 mg/day) and cyclosporin (100 mg/day). He continued to receive prophylactic trimethoprim/ sulfamethoxazole for pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jiroveci. Six months later, he developed central venous catheter-related sepsis caused by C tropicalis. Computed tomography (CT) detected a 2.9-cm-diameter abdominal aortic aneurysm . Physical examination showed severe stiffness of the spine and tenderness at L3–4. Neurological findings were normal. His temperature was 36.7°C, blood pressure was 120/63 mm Hg, and heart rate was 74 beats/min. His white blood cell count was 8 x10 9 /l, C-reactive protein level was 1.1 mg/dl, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 51 mm/h. Blood culture results were negative. Radiographs showed a narrowed disc space at L3–4, with destruction of the adjacent vertebral endplates . Gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging revealed a hyperintense signal over the L3–L4 vertebral bodies and abscess formation in the L3–L4 disc space . Contrast-enhanced CT revealed a 5.5-cmdiameter multilobulated infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm with periaortic fluid . A diagnosis of spondylodiscitis concurrent with infectious aortic aneurysm was made. Three-dimensional CT showed the infectious aneurysm adjacent to the intervertebral abscess . The patient underwent image-guided needle drainage of the abscess, followed by endovascular repair of the aortic aneurysm by a cardiologist using a bifurcated endovascular stent. Cefazolin (2 g/day) was administered. Six days after the drainage, cultures of the abscess yielded C tropicalis, and intravenous micafungin (150 mg/day) was initiated for 8 weeks, followed by a prolonged course of oral fluconazole (200 mg/day). Two weeks later, physiotherapy using a thoracolumbar orthosis was started. The patient could walk with a cane 6 weeks later, and was discharged at 5 months. At the one-year follow-up, the patient was pain-free and had no evidence of infection in laboratory tests or on radiographs. One month after the 12-month follow-up, the patient died of sepsis from a urinary tract infection caused by Escherichia coli.
