A 38-year-old man with APS and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, who had suffered from dyspnea and hemoptysis for 10 years and was treated with warfarin and bosentan, was referred to our hospital for pulmonary endarterectomy. Laboratory tests showed positive results for antiphospholipid antibodies including lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibody, and beta-2-grycoprotein 1 antibody, as well as a prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time of 97.6 s despite a prothrombin time of 20.1 s. He developed thrombocytopenia after catheterization: his platelet count dropped from 114,000 to 67,000/mL after right heart catheterization with heparin, and from 121,000 to 76,000/mL after inferior vena cava filter placement with danaparoid. Because no antiheparin/platelet factor 4 antibodies were detected, we decided to use heparin, but exclusively at the time of surgery to reduce a risk of developing heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). To monitor heparin therapy, we made a titration curve of heparin and the celite-activated clotting time (ACT) preoperatively, but the ACT exceeded 999 s at a heparin of 2.5 mg kg À1. Instead, we measured the whole blood heparin concentration with a Hepcon HMS PLUS (Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN, USA) at the time of surgery, and maintained the concentration in the range of 2.5–3.5 mg kg À1 with heparin in a total dose of 75,000 U during cardiopulmonary bypass. The baseline celite-and kaolin-ACT was 144 and 235 s, respectively, and both ACT remained greater than 999 s throughout the bypass. Despite a massive pulmonary hemorrhage, the patient was weaned from bypass with bronchial blocker placement. Platelet concentration and protamine in the Hepcon-determined dose (12 mg) were effective in achieving hemostasis; bronchoscopy shortly after the surgery showed no active bleeding. Anticoagulation was withheld, except for danaparoid in catheter flushes, due to severe thrombocytopenia  and pulmonary hemorrhage, and warfarin overlapping with fondaparinuxwas administered from postoperative day 3. Thereafter, the patient recovered uneventfully and his symptoms improved substantially with normal pulmonary hemodynamics . He did not develop any thrombotic or hemorrhagic complications on warfarin during 1 year of follow-up.
