A 61-year-old male patient was admitted to our hospital with progressive external dyspnea, leg edema, and muscle weakness. The patient was in good health up to a point two months prior to admission. The patient had a history of stomach ulcers and drank alcohol socially. He ate an unbalanced diet for many years. His BMI was 20.2 kg/m 2 and blood pressure was 97/45 mmHg. Paradoxical pulsation was not observed. The patient's heart rate was 92 bpm and oxygen saturation was 98 % at room air. A physical examination revealed jugular venous distention, although heart and breath sounds were unremarkable. Bilateral pitting edema was observed throughout the legs and muscle tenderness in the lower extremities was noted. A chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly, pulmonary vascular congestion, and pleural effusion. An electrocardiogram revealed ST segment depression in leads V4-5 . Echocardiography revealed a * Correspondence: sakurasoma1209@yahoo.co.jp Disease Control and Homeostasis, Graduate School of Medical Science, Kanazawa, University, 13-1 Takara-machi, Kanazawa 920-8641, Japan hyperkinetic left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction of 85 % without regional wall motion abnormalities and normal LV size (end-diastolic dimensions: 53 mm). A moderate amount of pericardial effusion was noted and mitral Doppler measurements showed the peak E wave velocity of 112 cm/s, the E/A ratio of 1.6, and E wave deceleration time of 151 ms; consistent with a pseudonormal pattern. No significant respiratory E wave variation (17 %) was observed . Tricuspid regurgitation was observed with a maximal velocity (TR V max) of up to 3.4 m/s. The inferior vena cava was markedly dilated to 23 mm and respiratory variation was diminished. Arterial blood gas analysis showed severe metabolic acidosis with an elevated lactate level of 56 mg/dL, while pH was preserved by a compensatory hyperventilation response. B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels were elevated to 322.8 pg/mL. No evidence of any viral infection or mycobacterium tuberculosis, both possible cause pericarditis, was found. Thyroid function was also normal. In addition, no malignancies were observed and all immunological profiles were negative. Intravenous furosemide was administered to the patient, however, his condition failed to improve. Hemodynamic evaluation using a Swan-Ganz catheter revealed high output heart failure with low peripheral vascular resistance and constrictive physiology, cardiac index of 5.35 l/min/ m 2 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 18 mmHg, and systematic vascular resistance of 400 dyne sec cm-5. Right ventricular (RV) and LV end diastolic pressures were approximately equal (20 and 19 mmHg, respectively) and exhibited a dip and plateau pattern (
;
). Coronary angiography was normal. Given the deficiency of thiamine (measured concentration: 13 ng/mL; normal range: 24-66 ng/mL) and the presence of lactic acidosis, we suspected wet beriberi in this case. Intravenous thiamine was administered (100 mg/day). Approximately seven hours after initial administration, the patient's urine output rapidly increased and his hemodynamic status improved dramatically. Two days after thiamine administration, an echocardiograph showed normal LV contraction (EF: 66 %), decreased pericardial effusion, and an improved pseudonormal pattern by mitral Doppler examination. The E/A ratio decreased to 0.8 and E wave deceleration time was extended to 204 ms . Lactic acidosis resolved 47 h after first dose and heart failure symptoms ceased after 2 days of thiamine replacement therapy. Twenty days after thiamine administration the hemodynamic profile was as follows: cardiac index 3.93 l/min/m 2 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 10 mmHg, and systematic vascular resistance 1236 dyne sec cm-5. Simultaneous RV and LV pressure tracings showed decreased end diastolic pressures, while respiratory ventricular discordance was negative. Electrocardiogram showed all changes were no longer observed by day 27 with the exception of the poor progression R wave . This rapid recovery post-administration of thiamine provided A Bstrong support for a diagnosis of wet beriberi. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging was done in order to investigate the cause of the constrictive physiology. However, late gadolinium enhancement of the myo-and pericardia, increased pericardial thickening, and calcification were not observed. In addition, no pathological findings related to the pericardium were identified. As the pericardial effusion rapidly decreased and the constrictive physiology resolved after thiamine administration, we concluded that wet beriberi was responsible for the pericardial involvement. This could further have a restraining effect on both ventricles, thus accounting for theconstrictive physiology observed. On follow-up, no recurrence of pericardial effusion was found. Echocardiography was performed 47 days after initiation of intravenous thiamine and this confirmed successful resolution of the constrictive physiology.
