Patient 1 A previously healthy 12-year-old boy presented with unilateral leg weakness and paresthesia. Two days earlier, he had practiced repeated diving beneath the water surface for a distance of 25 m. He reports that, after ascent, he suddenly felt extreme thoracic pain that resolved spontaneously. During the following hours, he subsequently experienced progressive sensory changes affecting his right side. This was followed by acute right leg weakness later the same day. A cerebral and lumbar spinal MRI that was ordered by the community neurologist on the next day was reported normal and he was discharged from the hospital. Two days later, the patient was referred to our hospital with persistent right leg weakness and paresthesia and an inability to walk. Neurologic examination revealed right leg weakness and sensory deficits with Departments of a General Pediatrics, Neonatology, and Pediatric Cardiology and b Trauma and Hand Surgery, Heinrich-Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany Drs Tibussek and Harmsen were involved in the acute patient care, conceptualized and designed the study, coordinated data collection, and drafted the initial manuscript; Prof Dr Mayatepek supervised patient care and data collection and critically reviewed and revised the manuscript; Drs Christaras, Karenfort, and Euler were involved in the patient care, contributed to the chart reviews and data interpretation, and reviewed and revised the manuscript; Dr Schramm contributed to the chart reviews and data interpretation and reviewed and revised the manuscript; and all authors approved the final manuscript as submitted.CASE REPORT a sensory level at T5. Pain sensation was intact; however, he reported a decreased sensation to pin-prick and temperature below the midthorax. Proprioception and vibration sense were intact. Reflexes were positive for upper extremities, exaggerated bilaterally at the patellar level with sustained clonus at the right ankle. In addition, there was an upgoing toe on the right. Blood tests and electrocardiogram results were normal. A complete spinal MRI revealed a nonenhancing T2-hyperintense lesion in the central cord at the level of T1/T2 suggesting a spinal cord edema (
. Together with the clinical course, this led to the diagnosis of a presumed AGE. Because of the delayed diagnosis, the patient was not considered a candidate for hyperbaric oxygen treatment. He was treated with intensive physiotherapy and over a course of several weeks he subsequently regained normal sensorimotor functions.
A few weeks later, a 13-year-old previously healthy girl was admitted to our hospital with acute dizziness, personality changes, confusion, and headache. Thirty minutes before, she had practiced diving beneath the water surface for a distance of ∼25 m.
After ascent, she felt sudden severe thoracic pain and lost consciousness over 1 to 2 minutes. Afterward she reported headache and vertigo, and numbness of her complete left side. Neurologic examination on arrival in the emergency department revealed reduced sensibility on her left side to all modalities, a positive Romberg test, and vertigo. A cerebral MRI, including diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) was normal. Further tests, including blood test, electrocardiogram, chest radiograph, and echocardiography, were all without abnormalities. On spirometry mild airway obstruction was detected, as indicated by reduced forced expiratory volume in 1 second and forced expiratory volume percentage in 1 second. She had just recovered from an acute airway infection, and an ear, nose and throat (ENT) investigation revealed a mild laryngitis. She was treated with acetylsalicylacid (2 mg/kg) and a colloidal infusion. In addition, 12 and 36 hours after her injury, hyperbaric oxygen treatment was initiated in a decompression facility. Within 24 hours she recovered from her neurologic symptoms.
