In March 2010, a 70-year-old Japanese man was transDivision of General Medicine, Department of Comprehensive Medicine 1, Saitama Medical Center, Jichi Medical University, Japan, Department of Pathology, Saitama Medical Center, Jichi Medical University, Japan, Division of Cardiology, Department of Comprehensive Medicine 1, Saitama Medical Center, Jichi Medical University, Japan, Division of Cardiology, Department of General Medicine, Saitama Citizens Medical Center, Japan, Department of Radiology, Saitama Medical Center, Jichi Medical University, Japan and Division of Metabolism, Endocrinology and Nutrition, University of Washington School of Medicine, USA Received for publication February 1, 2015; Accepted for publication Correspondence to Dr. Hitoshi Sugawara, hsmdfacp@omiya.jichi.ac.jpCBC: complete blood count, WBC: white blood cell count, RBC. red blood cell count, LDH: lactate dehydrogenase, ALP: alkaline phosphatase, CRP: C-reactive protein, BUN: blood urea nitrogen, CEA: carcinoembryonic antigen, CA19-9: carbohydrateantigen 19-9, SCC: squamous cell carcinoma, PSA: prostate-specific antien, BNP: brain natriuretic peptide, TSH: thyroid stimulating hormone, AOD: aorta diameter, LAD: left atrium diameter, IVST: interventricular septum thickness, LVPWth: left ventricular posterior wall thickness, LVDd: left ventricular end-diastolic diameter, LVDs: left ventricular end-systolic diameter, IVC: inferior vena cava, TR-PG: pressure gradient between right ventricle and right atriumported to the emergency department of our medical center due to massive hematemesis requiring four units of blood transfusion. An actively bleeding gastric ulcer was found at the lesser curvature of the stomach and was clipped endoscopically. He then underwent further examination and treatment. The patient had previously undergone transurethral resection of the prostate for benign prostatic hypertrophy at 57 and 62 years of age. He also received skin ablative therapy for Paget disease, which affected the base of the penis, at 66 years of age. In addition, he smoked 20 cigarettes per day between 20 and 65 years of age. Six months prior to admission, the patient had a high prostate specific antigen level (7.0 mg/dL) at his annual health checkup by a family physician. At that time, the serum creatinine level (Scr) was 1.00 mg/dL. He was found to have hypertension for the first time and antihypertensive medication was started. Four months prior to admission, gadolinium (Gd)-enhanced pelvic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and bone scintigraphy at a cancer center revealed multiple abnormal lesions at the lumbar spine, pelvic bone, and both femurs, but no prostatic malignancy. A tentative diagnosis of multiple bone metastases from MUO was made at this time. Three months prior to admission at our center, the patient, who was being treated by his family physician with amlodipine (5 mg/day) and candesartan (8 mg/day), was admitted to another medical center with acute congestive heart failure due to severe mitral valve regurgitation as evaluated by two-dimensional echocardiography . After stopping both amlodipine and candesartan, treatment was begun with furosemide (40 to 80 mg/day) and low-dose carperitide (0.02 μg/kg/minute) and perindopril (1 mg/day). A high plasma renin activity (6.8 ng/mL/hour) was noted on hospital day 9 while under treatment with furosemide (80 mg/ day). Congestive heart failure and hypertension responded to furosemide (80 mg/day), spironolactone (25 mg/day), azelnidipine (16 mg/day), and bisoprolol (5 mg/day). The patient's clinical course concerning the blood pressure, Scr level and treatment regimens is shown in . Upper endoscopy and colonoscopy failed to show a primary lesion. 18 Ffluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) whole-body positron emission tomography (PET)/enhanced whole-body computed tomography (CT) showed abnormal multiple sites of isotope accumulation in the sternum, vertebrae, ilia and femurs. A physical examination at our department showed a body mass index of 22 kg/m 2 ; body temperature, 36.3; blood pressure, 177/82 mmHg; heart rate, 66 beats/min (regular); and respiratory rate, 18 breaths/min. The conjunctivae were pale and there were no rales or heart murmur despite a history of mitral valve regurgitation, no abdominal tenderness or pretibial edema, an autodermic graft at the base of thepenis, right hip tenderness, a skin harvest scar at the right femoral area, and no superficial lymphadenopathy. A digital rectal examination revealed an elastic, hen's egg-sized prostate that was diffusely hard without any nodular induration. A summary of all the positive and relevant negative data is shown in . Chest radiography showed no cardiomegaly, pleural effusion, or pulmonary congestion, and the electrocardiogram was normal. We carefully reviewed the imaging findings with the radiologists obtained before admission and found on enhanced CT bilateral atrophic kidneys, renal-artery stenoses and irregular thickness of the wall of the abdominal aorta . There were no abnormal accumulations of FDG in these lesions . High echogenicity of the bilateral renal cortex and both stenoses and high blood flow patterns at the origin of bilateral renal arteries were detected by abdominal ultrasonography . Repeated plain pelvic MRI revealed the progression of bone metastases . A pathological examination of a CT-guided fine needle biopsy of a tumor site in the left iliac bone revealed a spindle-celled tumor mixed with collagen fibers. The histological pattern of the tumor cells exhibited malignant features without any differentiation . We decided against chemotherapy because of the patient's renal function, cardiac condition, and a life expectancy estimated to be short due to the multiple bone metastases. Additional candesartan therapy (4 mg/day) caused a marked rise in the Scr level from 1.67 mg/dL on hospital day 5 to 6.0 mg/dL on hospital day 27, although the earlier use of candesartan was not associated with this adverse effect. The Scr level improved to 1.96 mg/dL on hospital day 37 after discontinuation of candesartan. Due to right inguinal pain on walking, palliative focal radiotherapy to the right femur and oxycodone (10 mg/day) were administered. Significant oliguria, which developed on hospital day 53, and a progressively increasing blood pressure were treated with intermittent intravenous nitroglycerin (0.27 μg/kg/min), furosemide (80 mg/day), and carperitide (0.02 μg/kg/min) after hemodialysis was initiated on hospital day 59. Hemodialysis three times a week was continued and the patient was discharged on hospital day 76 on omeprazole (20 mg/day), long-acting nicardipine (40 mg/day), doxazosin (2 mg/day), and furosemide (80 mg/day). Two months later, whole-body MRI was repeated with the use of diffusion-weighted whole body imaging with background body signal (DWIBS) and showed multiple bone metastases at the sternum, both humeri, vertebrae, pelvis, and both femurs, multiple vertebral compression fractures and a pathological right femoral neck fracture , but failed to detect a primary lesion. Unfortunately, five months later, he was readmitted to our facility with a precipitous onset of pain in the pelvis, both thighs, thoracic spine, and loin. He could not walk anymore because of severe pain due to the pathological right femoral neck fracture. Epidural block and palliative radiotherapy for the right femur were not effective for pain relief. The patientAn autopsy revealed mutton fat-like clots blocking the intravascular lumen of the right renal artery . This lesion arose from the intima of the branching portion of the right renal artery. Atherosclerotic stenosis (75%) was found at the left renal artery and the media and adventitia of the aorta were intact. Moderate to severe atherosclerotic changes were seen in the luminal face of the abdominal aorta and the branching area of both renal arteries. Elastic yellowbrown colored masses were seen in the spine, ilia, and femurs. No other metastases or recurrence of Paget disease were found. Histologically, the clots consisted of undifferentiated fine spindle-celled tumor cells with thicket-like proliferation. Immunohistopathology  of the right renal artery revealed the loss of nearly the entire lumen lined by a CD31positive endothelium. CD31, keratin, and vimentin were expressed in the viable part of the tumor, a staining pattern similar to that of endothelial cells. The media was positive for α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA). The mutton fat-like material occluding the right renal artery was diagnosed as AIS. Two-thirds of the clot was AIS, including coagulative necrosis, while the remainder was determined to be atherosclerosis. According to the autopsy findings, we concluded that stenoses caused by AIS of the right renal artery and bilateral renal-artery atherosclerosis were likely to have contributed to RVHT.
