A 44-year-old Caucasian woman presented with a soft, painless, nonpulsatile, progressively enlarging mass at the level of the antecubital fossa of the left arm. A preliminary ultrasound (US) scan revealed an hypoechoic solid lesion along the cephalic vein, and a subsequent magnetic resonance image (MRI) of the arm confirmed a 2×1cm mass with a hypointense T1 signal and a weakly hyperintense T2 signal along the vein, suggesting a granuloma . Upon physical examination, the mass was mobile and painless; our patient did not present modification of reflexes of her left arm or signs of venous stasis. Our patient then underwent surgical removal of the neoplasm. Histology confirmed the diagnosis of intravenous EHE, defined as a 'low-grade malignancy with moderate potential to recur locally or to metastatize'. Unfortunately, surgical margins were microscopically involved, so our patient underwent a second surgical operation: a 2cm segment of cephalic vein with a lozenge of skin was excised and replaced with a graft. The definitive histopathologic report confirmed the presence of microscopic residual foci of EHE, with free surgical margins. Our patient did not show any surgery-related impairment of her left arm functions. A post-surgery US study and MRI scan did not show any residual mass, while a total-body positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) did not show any metastatic disease to regional lymph nodes or distant sites. Our patient was then referred to our radiation oncology unit. In consideration of the presence of microscopic disease foci in the second operation specimen and the considerable potential of local relapse highlighted by the pathologist, our patient underwent RT 4 months after the last surgery. A total dose of 54Gy in 27 fractions was administered with a single 6×6cm field. An 8MeV electron beam was used. Only a mild acute erythema of the irradiated skin was recorded as acute toxicity. During follow-up, our patient underwent MRI or ultrasound scans of the left arm every 6 months and computed tomography (CT) of the thorax and hepatic ultrasound scans every year. Five years after completion of the RT, our patient is alive with no evidence of recurrent or metastatic disease. She presented a Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) grade 1 late toxicity in the irradiated skin (pigmentation changes).
