A previously healthy 78-year-old Japanese woman had a 2-month history of a papulonodular eruption on the legs with pain in the calves. The eruption gradually extended over her legs with heavy pain, and subsequently a low-grade fever was noted. Her condition was tentatively diagnosed as cellulitis, but it did not respond to antibiotics. The patient was referred to us for further evaluation of her leg lesions. On examination, the patient had red papules and purpura/petechiae on the bilateral lower extremities . A skin biopsy specimen of an indurated papular lesion showed vasculitis of a medium-sized artery with fibrinoid deposition in the subcutaneous tissue . Laboratory examination revealed a high serum C-reactive protein level (8.7 mg/dl; normal < 0.3 mg/dl) and normal creatinine and creatine phosphokinase levels. Antinuclear antibody was positive at 1:320 (homogenous pattern), but antibodies to ss-and ds-DNA, anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody and antiphospholipid antibody were negative. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the legs revealed increased signal intensity in the calf muscles and the subcutaneous tissue in T2-weighted images, indicating inflammatory changes in these areas. T1-weighted images exhibited a high signal intensity area in the left soleus muscle , suggesting the presence of ectopic adipose tissue within the muscle. A biopsy specimen from the abnormal area of the soleus muscle confirmed the presence of ectopic adipose tissue; there were vasculitic changes in medium-sized vessels located in the ectopic fat tissue with a severe perivascular inflammatory infiltrate . Higher magnification disclosed a marked infiltrate of neutrophils, eosinophils and histiocytes in and around the arterial walls. Remarkable disruption of the internal elastic lamina of the arteries was revealed by elastica van Gieson staining . There was no vasculitis in the surrounding muscle tissue. The condition was diagnosed as PAN limited to the calf muscles and the skin, because of the absence of clinical or laboratory signs of systemic involvement. The patient was treated with oral prednisolone 20 mg daily, and the eruption and pain improved immediately. The corticosteroid was tapered over a few weeks. Currently, 8 months later, the patient has had no recurrence of the symptoms or CRP elevation at a dose of prednisolone 5 mg daily.
