In Jul 2011, an 8-year-old girl was investigated for chest tightness. She had a severe pectus excavatum and atrial septal defect (ASD) . Computed tomographic scan confirmed the Haller index was 6.2  and Echocardiography showed a secundum atrial septal defect with 15 mm size . Pulmonary function tests were within normal range. Thransthoracic occlusion for atrial septal defect and Nuss technique for the pectus excavatum were considered for Simultaneous repair. The sites of the operation which included the lowest concaves of the sternum, the highest points of both ribs and the cutting area of the left and right pectus were marked prior to the operation. A 3 cm incision was first made in the patient's right anterior 4th intercostal space. After the pericardium was opened, a 5 mm incision was made in the right atrium for the insertion of the delivery sheath. Under continuous TEE guidance, we used a diameter of 20 mm occluder (Shanghai Memory Alloy Company, Shanghai, China) to close the ASD. The procedure was completed by inspection for residual shunting, atrioventricular valve distortion, or obstruction of the superior vena cava, IVC, or coronary sinus. After the cardiac operation, two 1.5 cm skin incisions were made between the axilla anterior and backward lines on both sides of the pectus wall. With continuous monitoring through the incision for ASD occlusion, an introducing clamp which connected a 18 cm strutting bar (Shanghai Puwei medical instrument Company, Shanghai, China) was slowly moved from the right incision along the collapsed area of the sternum toward the left incision. The convex side of the strutting bar was pulled over theof the sternum. When the strutting bar was in the position, the sternum and anterior pectus wall were protruded in an expected shape. After withdrawn the introducing clamp, the strutting bar on one side was invaginated in the holder. Subsequently, the holder and strutting bar were sutured to the rib periosteum. No drainage tube was placed. Postoperative X-ray showed the positions of the strutting bar that corrected the funnel chest  and the occluder that closed atrial septal defect were satisfactory .The patient was extubated on the day of surgery and was discharged after 5 days. The cosmetic appearance appeared excellent . Antiaggregation therapy consisted of heparin (administered during the first 24 postoperative hours) and aspirin (3–4 mg/kg/d, continued for 6 months postoperatively). In Jul 2013, two years after operation, the strutting bar was withdrawn, the cosmetic appearance appeared excellent, there was no episodes of ASD residual fistula, hydrothorax, endocarditis, thromboembolism, or permanent rhythm disturbances.
