A 19-year-old male was admitted to our respiratory medicine ward witha feeling of heaviness on the right side of his chest, weight loss, the appearance of tortuous swelling on the anterior abdominal wall and shortness of breath. Cough, expectoration, hemoptysis, wheeze, fever, anorexia and night sweats were absent. The patient denied any significant medical or surgical history, including allergies and had an insignificant family history. He was a nonsmoker, non-alcoholic and not drug addicted. There were no skin lesions, or ear, nose, throat and ophthalmic complaints. There was no history of exposure to dust. A general physical examination and vitals were within normal limits except for a tortuous swelling over the anterior abdominal wall (venous prominence), which increased on bending forward . A chest exkocyte count 12 800/µL with neutrophils 90% and a platelet count of 244 000/µL. The serum biochemistry profile including liver function tests, random blood sugar, renal function tests, alkaline phosphatase, serum calcium and serum ACE were unremarkable. HIV serology was negative. ECG and ultrasonography of the abdomen was normal. Spirometry showed a mild restrictive pattern. Chest radiograph posterior-anterior view showed a right-sided homogeneous opacity involving the upper and midzone with blunting of both the cardiophrenic and costophrenic angle on the same side . A contrast-enhanced computerised tomography scan (CECT) of the chest showed a right hilar mass with collapse of the right upper lobe, with complete occlusion of the SVC and IVC along with moderate pleural effusions . Pleural fluid analysis was suggestive of exudative pleural effusion (cell counts of 90% lymphocytes and protein 5.0 g/dL with low ADA 30 IU/l) negative for acid fast bacilli (AFB) and malignant cells. On fiber optic bronchoscopy, complete occlusion of the right upper lobe bronchus due to extrinsic compression with minimal mucosal irregularity/nodularity was observed. Further bronchial washing, broncho-alveolar lavage and transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) samples were sent for AFB smear and culture, cytopathological examination, KOH smear and fungal culture. Reports were negative for tuberculosis and malignancy. KOH smear from the TBNA sample was positive for fungal hyphae, which on methamine silver nitrate staining showed acute angle branching septate fungal hyphae suggesting Aspergillus fumigatus . Further culture on Sabouraud agar confirmed the species as Aspergillus fumigatus . We made a final diagnosis of a right-sided aspergillus mediastinal mass with right upper lobe collapse, SVC and IVC obstruction. Following initiation of therapy with voriconazole (intravenous initially for a week followed by oral), the patient had marked relief of symptoms and improvement in clinical as well as radiological (chest X ray and CECT thorax) parameters within 15 days  and was discharged on oral voriconazole. The patient was followed up for six months while on treatment and had significant improvement.
