A 52-year-old man, who had undergone total arch replacement using the elephant trunk technique for acute Stanford type A aortic dissection at our hospital at the age of 48 years, visited our hospital with general malaise, night sweats, and gluteal pain for 3 months and an occasional fever of 39°C for 1 month. He was admitted for detailed examinations. Hematological findings on admission included C-reactive protein (CRP) of 4.7 mg/dl, hemoglobin of 10.3 g/dl, white blood cell count of 7700/µl, procalcitonin of 0.135 ng/ml, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 55 mm/hr. Blood Takeshiro Fujii, MD, Muneyasu Kawasaki, MD, Tomoyuki Katayanagi, MD, Shinnosuke Okuma, MD, Hiroshi Masuhara, MD, Noritsugu Shiono, MD, and Yoshinori Watanabe, MDbacterial culture was negative. Chest CT revealed a low density area around the vascular graft , and Ga scintigraphy showed increased accumulation at the same site. Based on a strong suspicion of prosthetic vascular graft infection, the patient received chemotherapy with antibiotics for 1 month, followed by surgical procedures. The anterior mediastinum median was dissected with median sternotomy. Since an abscess was found around the vascular graft, lavage and debridement of infected tissues were performed. When dissection of the abscess cavity had advanced to the level of the aortic arch, the elephant trunk vascular graft was exposed . At the time, the abscess cavity was found to involve the space between the aortic wall and the elephant trunk graft. The abscess was thus found to surround the vascular prosthesis in the anterior mediastinum and to involve the aorta bound by the aortic wall . Due to the risk of bleeding from the peripheral region of the elephant trunk, the patient was immediately placed in the right lateral position. Using thoracotomy through the left forth intercostal space and partial extracorporeal circulation with blood delivered through the left femoral artery and drained from the left femoral vein, we performed vascular graft replacement of the region from the elephant trunk prosthesis to the thoracic descending aorta at the diaphragmatic level, and then closed the chest. VAC was performed on the debrided anterior mediastinum in preparation for the second step with an omental flap filling procedure. One week later, following gentian violet application to Fujii T, et al. the anterior mediastinum, an omental flap filling procedure was performed and the chest was closed. The patient showed favorable postoperative progress. His condition improved after 1-month chemotherapy, and he was discharged. Bacterial culture of pus and tissues collected during the surgery was negative. All surveillance culture samples collected perioperatively were also negative. As of 10 months postoperatively, there has been no recurrence of the infection.
