We describe a 15-year-old girl with granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) who presented with pulmonary hemorrhage, active urinary sediment and normal creatinine. Renal biopsy demonstrated a moderately severe pauci-immune, crescentic glomerulonephritis with focal segmental fibrinoid necrosis. She was anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody positive (1:320) with an elevated proteinase 3 (1:80) and normal myeloperoxidase titre (1:2). Her pulmonary disease responded to combined therapy of intravenous (IV) pulse methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide. Following 2 months of maintenance immunosuppressive therapy, she developed a large pericardial effusion. Subxiphoid pericardiocentesis drained 450 ml of chyle, and a pericardial drain remained in place for 4 days, with resolution following treatment with IV octreotide. Ongoing echocardiographic follow-up over 6 months confirmed the absence of a pericardial fluid re-accumulation. Despite therapy, her renal disease progressed to chronic kidney disease stage 5 over the next 6 months, with repeat renal biopsy demonstrating widespread glomerulosclerosis.L, but was sterile and negative for adenovirus, enterovirus and echovirus. Her C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were both moderately elevated, and she had mild lymphopenia and anemia. Her anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody titers were negative. The differential diagnoses at the time included an inflammatory pericarditis secondary to her GPA (raised inflammatory markers and pericardial fluid with inflammatory cells), pericarditis secondary to infection and uremic pericarditis, although the latter was deemed unlikely owing to her considerable residual renal function and a sufficient PD prescription. As pericarditis secondary to infection also seemed unlikely based on repeated negative viral and bacterial cultures she was treated with steroids (oral prednisone 1 mg/kg daily). She continued on PD for the next 48 h, with significant volumes of glucose-containing solution draining from the pericardial drain (fluid protein <20 g/L, fluid glucose 16.8 mmol/L, serum glucose 4.6). As there were concerns that peritoneal fluid was tracking up into the pericardium, a 12.5French non-cuffed hemodialysis (HD) neck catheter was inserted, her PD was held (abdomen drained) and she commenced HD four times weekly, achieving urea reduction ratios of 70–75 % on each occasion. Serial echocardiography following removal of the drain documented no re-accumulation over the next 2 weeks while on HD. NIPD was resumed with a fill volume of 900 mL/m 2 , 8 cycles over 10 h with Dianeal® 1.5 %. The fill volume was increased gradually over the next 5 days to 1100 mL/m 2. Routine surveillance echocardiography 1 week after restarting NIPD demonstrated a significant pericardial effusion, requiring further pericardial drainage (fluid volume 600 mL, fluid protein <20 g/L, fluid triglycerides <0.11 mmol/L, fluid glucose 15.1 mmol/L, serum glucose 4.4 mmol/L). Peritoneal scintigraphy was planned in order to demonstrate the presumed peritoneal–pericardial connection. Briefly, 222 MBq of Tc-99m sulphur colloid was injected into 1500 mL of peritoneal dialysate and infused into the patient's peritoneum via the Tenckhoff catheter. Dynamic images were taken up to 60 min followed by static images. A subsequent dynamic acquisition sequence and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), as well as 2.5-h delayed images were also obtained. Initially, activity was only seen in the peritoneum. However, during the dynamic acquisition, activity was visualized in the region of the pericardium  and subsequently confirmed on the second dynamic acquisition series and SPECT. Following the positive test she was switched back to HD, and the pericardial effusion resolved echocardiographically over 1 month, without any need for further drainage. A repeat nuclear study 2 weeks following the switch to HD, prior to the removal of her PD catheter, confirmed a persistent peritoneal– pericardial communication. She has remained on HD four times weekly with no further re-accumulation of pericardial fluid.
