A 61-year-old Japanese man presented to the emergency room with hematemesis. He was unconscious due to persistent arterial hypotension. On laboratory examinations, severe anemia was detected (hemoglobin level was 5.0 g/dl). Other laboratory data revealed normal liver, biliary, and pancreatic enzymes. The levels of serum tumor markers, including carcinoembryonic antigen and carbohydrate antigen 19-9, were also within normal limits. Although he had been a habitual alcohol drinker for 40 years, he had no history of pancreatitis or episodes of recurrent abdominal pain. He had presented to another hospital with hematemesis 1 month prior to presenting to our hospital. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) at the previous hospital had revealed a lowdensity mass of 2.0 cm in size in the pancreatic body with dilatation of the distal main pancreatic duct and a cystic lesion in the pancreatic tail . Further investigation had been planned. Abdominal CT on admission to our hospital demonstrated a low-density mass and a pseudoaneurysm in close contact with the wall of the pseudocyst of the pancreatic tail, compressing the stomach . The pseudoaneurysm had not been detected by abdominal CT performed at the previous hospital 1 month prior. The pancreatic pseudocyst had increased to 3.8 cm in diameter. The patient was resuscitated after being given a blood transfusion. The lesion was diagnosed as a pseudoaneurysm caused by a pancreatic pseudocyst complicating obstructive pancreatitis due to pancreatic cancer. The lesion had ruptured and fistulized into the stomach. Emergency selective angiography was immediately performed. Splenic arteriography revealed that the pseudoaneurysm arose from the left gastroepiploic artery (LGEA) branching from the splenic artery . TAE of the LGEA through the splenic artery was performed. After TAE, complete embolization of the LGEA was confirmed . An upper digestive endoscopy the day after TAE revealed an extrinsic compression of the greater curvature of the gastric body with central erosion that appeared to be the fistula orifice between the stomach andthe pancreatic pseudocyst . Bleeding was not observed. Under the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer associated with a ruptured pseudoaneurysm secondary to a pancreatic pseudocyst, elective distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy with regional lymph node dissection combined with partial resection of the stomach was performed 3 weeks after TAE. A firm tumor was located at the body of the pancreas, and the distal pancreas was diffusely hard, which was compatible with pancreatitis caused by obstruction of the main pancreatic duct due to pancreatic cancer. The pancreatic pseudocyst was identified as a firm mass with dense inflammation adhering between the posterior wall of the stomach and the pancreas tail. Macroscopically, the pseudocyst wall consisted of the posterior wall of the stomach and pancreas. The LGEA was located at the wall of the pancreatic pseudocyst. Pathological examination of the tumor tissue revealed a moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma in the pancreatic body with regional lymph node metastasis  and the LGEA rupturing into the pancreatic pseudocyst in the pancreatic tail ( , c). In the non-cancerous area of the pancreas, sparse periductal lymphocytic infiltrates and well-preserved lobular structures were observed; however, intralobular fibrosis, duct distortions, protein plugs or calculi, which are all suggestive of chronic pancreatitis, were not observed. There were no postoperative complications, and the patient has experienced no tumor recurrence or metastasis during 1 year of follow-up.
