A 43-year-old Caucasian woman was referred to our hospital with a complaint of epigastric discomfort. Abdominal ultrasonography and contrast-enhanced computed , 1b). No other concomitant disease, like cirrhosis, portal hypertension, collagen vascular disease or other abnormalities, was observed. Multiplanar and three-dimensional imaging was performed for subsequent planning of treatment. Endovascular treatment with endovascular ligature was proposed. A right common femoral artery approach was performed under local anesthesia, a 5-French sheath was placed, and diagnostic splenic angiograms were initially obtained with selective catheterization of the celiac trunk, which confirmed an aneurysm of the distal tract of her splenic artery. Considering the tortuosity of the splenic artery a microcatheter (Progreat®, Terumo, Tokyo, Japan) was placed into her splenic artery distal to the aneurysm to achieve distal embolization. A detachable coil (Interlock™, Boston Scientific, Natick, Massachusetts, USA) 6mm×10cm was deployed. After microcatheter retraction proximal to the aneurysm, a second detachable coil (Interlock™, Boston Scientific, Natick, Massachusetts, USA) 5mm×15cm was deployed. Angiography after endovascular ligature showed exclusion of the aneurysmal sac . Color Doppler ultrasound (CDU) and contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) performed the day after the procedure, showed devascularization of the SAA. Examinations showed ischemic damage of her spleen, but most of the splenic parenchymal vascularization was present. Although symptoms indicative of mild post-embolization syndrome, such as transient fever and pain, were observed in our patient, administration of antibiotics and analgesicantipyretic drugs was effective and no refractory symptoms were noted. Two days after the procedure she was discharged. The first imaging examination of follow up consists of a contrast-enhanced CT after 1 month. CT images and three-dimensional reconstructions revealed a persistent perfusion of the sac of the aneurysm; on the basis of the images the cause of the reperfusion was not clear, we hypothesized an incomplete embolization of the coils previously deployed . A second hospitalization was organized and a second angiography was performed. A selective angiogram of the celiac trunk revealed an afferent vessel to the sac of the aneurysm originating from her left gastric artery and confirmed absence of reperfusion by splenic vessels previously embolized . A superselective catheterization of that vessel was attempted but the onset of the vasospasm prevented it. The day after, a second attempt was performed, and the vessel was catheterized through splenic hilum vessels anastomosed with branches of her left gastric artery. We used a 2.7 French microcatheter (Progreat®, Terumo, Tokyo, Japan) and a second smaller microcatheter 2.1 French (Echelon™-10, EV3, Paris, France) was introduced within the first one. The vessel afferent the aneurysmal sac was visualized and selectively catheterized. It was embolized with 2 microcoils 4mmx10cm (VortX®; Boston Scientific, Natick, Massachusetts, USA) and 1cc of glue (Glubran II®, GEM Srl, Viareggio, Italy). An angiogram performed at the end of the procedure showed exclusion of the aneurysmal sac . CDU and CEUS performed the day after the procedure, showed devascularization of the SAA without any additional ischemic damage to splenic parenchyma. She was discharged the day after with antibiotic coverage without any symptoms related to post-embolization syndrome. A contrastenhanced CT performed 3 months after the procedure confirmed the complete exclusion of the SAA .
