A 45-year-old female patient with a sudden onset of low back pain was admitted for emergency treatment. Her blood pressure was 160/90 mm Hg when she arrived at the hospital. She had not had hypertension before and had never smoked. Aortic CTA showed a Stanford type B aortic IMH with aortic BAPs and common iliac artery dissection. In particular, the p eriaortic contrast agent collections in the IMH were clearly connected to the lumbar artery and accessory renal artery (ARA), causing obvious intimal disruption of the true lumen at the L4 to L5 level. Th e following BAP anatomical characteristics were observed: the right lumba r artery (L3), with an orifi ce diameter of 1.5 mm and a longitudinal diameter of 8 mm ; the right lumbar artery (L4), with an orifi ce diameter of 1.5 mm and a longitudinal diameter of 11 mm ; and the right ARA, with an orifi ce diameter of 3 mm and a longitudinal diameter of 12 mm . Th e initial IMH thickness was 9 mm. Moreover, we observed a size increase in ARA BAP (longitudinal diameter: 15 mm) and IMH thickness (11.5 mm) aft er 10 days of follow-up. Considering the progression of the CTA fi ndings and the persistence of intermittent pain despite optim al medical therapy, the patient underwent endovascular treatment. A 5F pigtail catheter and a 0.035-inch guide wire were inserted via this arteriotomy site into the left iliac artery and through the true lumen into the abdominal aorta. Th e aortogram revealed contrast poolings in the IMH that were clearly connected to the lumbar artery and the ARA, along with iliac dissection . A selective angiography of the right ARA was performed with a 5F Cobra 2 catheter, and the outfl ow of ARA was identifi ed and cannulated. Two 3-mm embol ization coils (William Cook,Bjaeverskov, Denmark) were placed at the distal outfl ow of the ARA pseudoaneurysm . To exclude the proximal infl ow of BAPs, we placed a 16 × 95 mm Medtronic Endurant ENLW endograft 5 mm just below the right renal artery, with its distal end positioned 15 mm just above the iliac bifurcation. Considering that the iliac dissection was localized and the covered stent would exclude the left internal iliac artery, we decided to use a 10× 60 mm Optimed bare metal stent to immobilize the dissecting lamella . Angiography was performed immediately aft er deployment to confi rm the covering of the pseudoaneurysms, and that the scope of iliac dissection was narrowed . Th e patient recovered well and underwent an uneventful asymptomatic followup with no further complications aft er discharge from the hospital. Th e CTA scan 1 year later revealed that the hematoma was completely absorbed and no BAP or dissection existed. Th e lumbar arteries and the right ARA were patent with low blood fl ow.
