The patient had severe stenosis of unknown etiology in the middle of the right main PA, accompanied by marked pulmonary hypertension and dysfunction of the right ventricle (RV) at age 48 ( , b). The existing hemodynamic strains required endovascular or surgical intervention to relieve the stenosis, and we chose surgery, hoping to establish the diagnosis. We were concerned about either local progression or spread to the other area of this undiagnosed stenosis if the lesion was left behind with patch angioplasty or bypass surgery.Thus, we decided to perform graft replacement with total excision of the lesion, and an 18 mm Dacron graft (Triplex R , Terumo Corporation, Japan) was anastomosed in an end-to-end fashion behind the ascending aorta. He was finally diagnosed as having isolated pulmonary TA only by the pathological examination of the resected right PA , and began anticoagulation therapy with warfarin to attain a target prothrombin time-international normalized ratio (PT-INR) of 2.0 – 2.5 in addition to aspirin at 100 mg/day. At the 6-month follow-up after surgery, enhanced chest CT showed a patent graft ( , d), and transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) demonstrated normalized RV function . The patient remained asymptomatic since then, and was followed with laboratory tests every 2 months, which showed no remarkable changes in C-reactive protein (CRP) values of less than 0.5 mg/dl. He had TTEs every 6 months, which demonstrated no abnormality at his 12-month follow-up . However, TTE at the 18-month follow-up showed remarkable pulmonary hypertension and RV dysfunction with preserved left ventricle systolic function . Thus, enhanced chest CT was performed and revealed severe stenosis of the right PA graft especially at the anastomotic sites, surrounded by a circumferential abnormal shadow covering the full length of the graft ( , f ). Peripheral PAs distal to the PA graft were intact, and no other apparent abnormalities or changes on the other chest and neck vessels were observed when compared to that of the previous studies. Whole body positron emission tomography with fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose CT (FDG-PET) was then performed for the first time and demonstrated high FDG uptake only around the right PA graft, but no other abnormal uptake by the other vessels was observed ( , b). The FDGPET result suggested that focal inflammation around the graft was the most probable cause of the stenosis, although CRP levels remained almost unchanged . Oral prednisolone at 10 mg/day was thus initiated, but was reduced to 5 mg/day 2 months afterwards because of its potential side effects, including facial edema, depressive mood disorder, and mild liver dysfunction. The facial edema persisted since then, but otherwise the patient remained asymptomatic and did not consent to take additional immunosuppressive agents. Repeated CTs, TTEs, and laboratory tests at 24-and 30-month followups demonstrated no remarkable changes . However, the patient gradually complained of dyspnea on exertion since then. An oral diuretic was added on suspicion of exacerbating right heart strain, but the patient was readmitted to the hospital due to worsening symptoms 31 months after surgery. TTE on re-admission revealed no remarkable change compared to that of the previous studies, except for decreased right ventricular systolic pressure, which seemed to be inconsistent with right heart failure but rather indicated hypovolemia . Indeed, cessation of the diuretic and fluid replacement improved the patient's condition and symptoms rapidly. Re-catheterization and subsequent angioplasty or re-surgery were thus offered, but the patient refused any interventional procedures. The patient also refused increasing the dose of prednisolone, complaining of the still persisting facial edema. After leaving the hospital, the patient's physical condition remained stable on the same dosage of prednisolone. CT and TTE performed at the 34-month follow-up, 3 months after re-admission, showed no remarkable change in the right PA graft stenosis and similar pulmonary hypertension. Thus, the stenosis accompaniedTTE: transthoracic echocardiography, Pre: preoperatively, M: months after surgery, *: detection of the restenosis, † : at readmission, WBC: white blood cell, CRP: C-reactive protein, ESR: erythrocyte sedimentation ratio, PT-INR: prothrombin time-international normalized ratio, TRPG: tricuspid regurgitation pressure gradient, RVSP: right ventricular systolic pressure, PAPG: pressure gradient between main and right pulmonary artery, Tr: tricuspid regurgitation, EF: ejection fraction, ND: not detected, −: not available with pulmonary hypertension and RV dysfunction was almost unchanged for as long as 16 months since its first detection (
, h, and
). Thereafter, contact with the patient was lost.
