A 16-year-old male with congenital scoliosis underwent spinal fusion and decompression laminectomy, complicated by paraplegia. His initial physical examination (PE) showed bilateral lower extremity (LE) paraplegia with hyperreflexia. He exhibited bilateral upgoing Babinski's sign (BS), consistent with baseline upper motor neuron dysfunction. Prophylactic enoxaparin was held prior to his computer tomographic (CT) myelogram, following which he developed increased left calf and thigh swelling. Duplex ultrasonography revealed DVT extending from the calf veins to the left common femoral (CF) vein. Repeat PE now showed a complete loss of left-sided Babinski's reflex (flaccid response). This was suggestive of concurrent lower motor neuron (LMN) dysfunction, thought to be secondary to nerve compression from engorged vertebral collaterals. He was initiated on intravenous heparin and he was referred for catheterdirected thrombolysis (CDT). A left LE venogram via a transpopliteal access showed occlusive thrombosis of the left iliofemoral and popliteal veins. An infusion catheter was placed from the bifurcation A 53-year-old female with colorectal cancer with metastases to the spine underwent L4 corpectomy (with expandable cage placement) to treat L4 cord compression. In the postoperative course, she developed extensive DVT involving her LCI vein, left external iliac (EI) vein, and IVC. A venogram revealed LCI vein occlusion, with thrombus extending towards the distal IVC. She therefore underwent LCI vein stenting with IVC filter placement within the IVC, above the level of the thrombus. Postoperative imaging showed suboptimal positioning of the expandable cage, and she was therefore referred for revision surgery. In the week following this revision, her left LE edema continued to worsen, despite therapeutic enoxaparin. She was therefore referred for CDT. Left femoral venography revealed occlusion of the left CF and iliac veins, as well as significant thrombus burden below the level of the IVC filter with an occluded LCI vein stent. Moreover, severe stenosis of the LCI vein was noted within the area of prior LCI vein stenting, coinciding with an overlying spinal pedicle screw . She underwent isolated PMT with a Trellis catheter using 17 mg of tPa/alteplase. Given a large residual clot burden, a Uni*Fuse catheter (AngioDynamics, Latham, NY, USA) was placed across the iliac and caval segments for additional CDT with tPa/alteplase at 1 mg/h. Venographythree cases were treated by repositioning of the prosthesis (with subsequent decompression of the vein). In two cases, adjunctive anticoagulation was utilized. The third case underwent venous thrombectomy. In our 'Case 1', the patient underwent spinal fusion and decompressive laminectomy. His postoperative LE edema and neurological changes were thought to be secondary to peripheral nerve compression from vertebral venous collaterals and their engorgement from occlusive acute DVT. The timing of the DVT to the placement of a surgical screw and the angiographic appearance of focal critical stenosis underneath the screw both suggest an iatrogenic compression as an etiology of his DVT. The spatial proximity of the distal tip of the pedicle screw to the course of the vein is demonstrated in . Even though direct venous compression by the screw is not visualized, it is plausible that venous compression could nevertheless easily occur due to localized bleeding and inflammation following iatrogenic perturbation of the vertebral body cortex. After CDT and Wallstent placement, our patient's LMN function recovered, as evidenced by the return of his upwards BS. Interestingly, his DVT has not recurred since treatment, despite paraplegia. Similarly, in 'Case 2', a patient with metastatic colorectal cancer developed DVT acutely following spinal surgery. A severe stenosis of her LCI vein was seen in association with an overlying spinal pedicle screw. Again, the timing and a focal critical stenosis underneath the pedicle screw both point to an iatrogenic factor in the development of her recurrent DVT . Once again, symptoms were dramatically reduced following CDT and stenting of the compressed segment. Major orthopedic and neurosurgical procedures are associated with a high incidence of DVT due to extended immobility and the hypercogulable state in the postoperative period. 14 The guidelines regarding the prevention and management of perioperative DVT in these patients are comprehensive. However, the treatment of DVT due to external compression of the veins by the implanted hardware is less well addressed. Anticoagulation is the standard treatment for LE DVT. 27 However, the underlying cause of DVT in venous compression syndrome (external compression of the vein) is not definitively treated with anticoagulation alone. Hence, these patients are potentially at greater risk for developing PTS than those patients without any compression. As seen in , treatment in most cases is surgical decompression of the involved vein, accompanied sometimes with anticoagulation. In cases where direct surgical decompression is not an option, advanced catheter-based therapies such as CDT, followed by endovenous angioplasty and stenting could be a viable treatment solution to prevent PTS and recurrent DVT in these patients. CDT aims at achieving thrombus removal by local delivery of thrombolytic agents with or without mechanical fragmentation of the clot. This treatment modality has been shown to reduce the incidence of PTS in patients with proximal DVT. 28 However, residual venous stenosis after thrombus removal is associated with a high incidence of recurrent DVT. 29 In these cases, balloon venoplasty and/or stenting can significantly reduce the rate of recurrent thrombosis.
Our patients with residual stenosis from IAVC were free of recurrent DVT at the 1-year follow-up after successful venoplasty and stenting of the compressed vein segments.
