A previously healthy 27-year-old male presented to the Emergency Department with a 5-day history of sore throat,vomiting and fever after returning from a trip to his family in Gambia and Liberia 2-weeks earlier. During initial assessment, his throat revealed erythema of the oropharyngeal wall and cervical lymphnodes were palpable. Since he showed definitive signs of septic shock (blood pressure of 85/45 mmHg; pulse of 140/min; temperature of 39 °C (102 °F); white blood cell count 10.1 9 10 9 /l; platelets 26 9 10 9 /l; erythrocyte sedimentation rate [120 mm/h; C-reactive protein (CRP) 377 mg/l; serum lactate 4.4 mmol/l, signs of renal failure and liver dysfunction) and early signs of acute respiratory distress syndrome (respiratory distress and bilateral patchy consolidation on chest X-ray), he was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for haemodynamic support, sedation and mechanically assisted ventilation. Three days after admission, a CT scan revealed a parapharyngeal abscess with a thrombotic process in the left jugulary vein which confirmed to the diagnosis of Lemierre syndrome. Additionally, the CT scan showed cavitary lung lesions; pulmonary infiltrates; bilateral psoas abscesses and prevertebral infiltrates consistent with multiple septic emboli. Blood cultures were positive for Streptococcus milleri and Fusobacterium species. Since Fusobacterium species were susceptible to b-lactam antibiotics, treatment was changed to intravenous benzylpenicillin. Because of the risk of b-lactamase production of Fusobacterium species, treatment was combined with clindamycin and metronidazol. The parapharyngeal abscess was drained surgically and cultures were positive for BRMO gram-negative rods. The psoas abscesses were drained percutaneously with positive cultures for Enterobacter aerogenes and Enterococcus faecalis. As his vital signs stabilized and his condition improved, he could be taken of mechanical ventilation and was transferred to the general internal ward on day 15. Despite antibiotic treatment for Lemierre syndrome, a fever with temperatures up to 40 °C (104 °F) persisted. Consequently, various diagnostic tests were performed to search for a secondary infection. Skeletal scintigraphy 1 month after admission showed a slightly irregular uptake of the radionuclide in all vertebral bodies without obvious signs of osteomyelitis or spondylodiscitis. Extensive microbiological and immunological screening revealed a positive Mantoux test and positive tuberculosis-interferon gamma release assay (TBC-IGRA). A HIV test was negative. Positron-emission tomography 7 weeks after admission showed normal aspect of the psoas, jugular vein and earnose-throat region. However, there was an increased radionuclide uptake in the lungs, skeleton and axillary lymph nodes. Biopsies of the enlarged axillary lymph nodes and iliac crest were obtained which showed necrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis and partial osteonecrosis with the presence of multinucleated giant cells, respectively. Cultures, polymerase chain reaction assays and Ziehl–Neelsen/ auramine staining of sputum, pleural effusion and lymph nodes for mycobacterium tuberculosis were negative. Despite these negative results, there was a high index of suspicion for miliary tuberculosis considering the persisting fever, recent trip to Africa, positive Mantoux and tuberculosis-interferon gamma release assay, cavitary lung lesions and granulomatous lymphadenitis. Therefore, treatment for miliary tuberculosis with isoniazid, rifampicin and ethambutol was started. After 3 months of antibiotic treatment for Lemierre syndrome and 4 weeks of treatment for tuberculosis, his fever was gone and his condition had improved sufficiently to be discharged from the hospital. Two and a half months later, the patient was readmitted because of severe back pain. Although mild pain was already present in the lumbar area during his first admission, it had intensified in 3 weeks time and spread throughout his complete thoracolumbosacral spine. Despite the use of acetaminophen and NSAIDs, he was notable to stand and walk because it aggravated the pain. There were no ear-nose-throat, pulmonary or abdominal complaints or abnormalities. On physical examination, his vital signs were normal. He had a limited range of motion and tenderness of the thoracic and lumbar spine without any neurologic deficits. Laboratory tests revealed an elevated WBC of 6.3 9 10 9 /l and CRP of 45 mg/l. Plain radiographs of the thoracolumosacral spine and CT-scan revealed extensive bony changes from Th1 to the sacrum with osteolytic areas in all vertebral bodies surrounded by central and cortical sclerosis . Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated increased signal intensity in the vertebral endplates and vertebral body on both T1 and T2-weighted sequences with limited involvement of the intervertebral disks . Due to the extensive spinal involvement and a rapidly increased CRP of 447 mg/l, the patient was transferred to an infectious disease and spine center where he developed a fever of 39 °C (102 °F). Apart from the tuberculostatics, antibiotic treatment was not started before blood cultures and fluoroscopy-guided percutaneous spinal aspirates and biopsies were obtained. Although the aspirates of vertebra L1 and L2 revealed pus, microbiological cultures remained negative. Histology of the biopsies showed purulent sclerosing osteomyelitis. An echocardiogram revealed no signs of endocarditis. Since the Fusobacterium species were expected to be responsible for the infection, the extended spectrum b-lactam antibiotic piperacillin combined with the b-lactamase inhibitor tazobactam was started and the oral tuberculosis treatment was continued. As the patient improved clinically and CRP declined, he was mobilized with a thoracolumbar orthosis for support and comfort. After 2 weeks, antibiotic treatment was switched to ciprofloxacin and clindamycin orally. Although his clinical condition remained unchanged upon weekly follow-up outpatient visits, he was readmitted for a 6 day period because of an increase in CRP. Antibiotic treatment was switched back to intravenous piperacillin and tazobactam. The tuberculostatics were stopped 6 months after initiation. Intravenous antibiotic treatment with piperacillin and tazobactam was to be administered for 6 weeks after normalization of the CRP. However, the patient decided to stop the antibiotics prematurely 10 months after diagnosing Lemierre syndrome and 4.5 months after his re-admission for back pain. The patient was last seen 3 years after diagnosing Lemierre syndrome. Although he had improved significantly and has not had a recurrent infection, he continued to have back pain and a limited range of motion of his spine at last follow-up.
