The New England Journal of Medicine Downloaded from nejm.org at LOS ANGELES (UCLA) on April 6, 2017. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright © 2016 Massachusetts Medical Society. All rights reserved.
vitamin D supplements, and biotin. She was allergic to sulfa drugs, which caused a rash. She did not smoke, drink alcohol, or use illicit drugs. She lived alone and her children lived nearby. Her father had had an abdominal aortic aneurysm; there was no other family history of cardiovascular or dermatologic disease. On examination, the patient was in respiratory distress and responded to questions with one-or two-word answers. The temperature was 36.6°C, the blood pressure 109/69 mm Hg, the pulse 94 beats per minute, the respiratory rate 24 breaths per minute, and the oxygen saturation 84% while she was breathing ambient air. She had jugular venous distention to 11 cm of water, poor air movement, diffuse bilateral lung crackles, and scattered purpuric lesions on the face, neck, trunk, and arms. The remainder of the examination was normal. Oxygen supplementation was administered through a nonrebreather face mask, and the oxygen saturation rose to higher than 90%. An ECG showed sinus rhythm at a rate of 81 beats per minute and left bundlebranch block. Dr. Michael T. Lu: A chest radiograph  showed patchy and confluent opacities in both lower lobes and small bilateral pleural effusions. These findings are compatible with pulmonary edema. Dr. Kattan: Blood levels of hemoglobin, urea nitrogen, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, albumin, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, amylase, and lipase were normal, as were the platelet count, prothrombin time, and prothrombin-time international normalized ratio; other test results are shown in . Testing for influenza types A and B, hepatitis B and C viruses, and Lyme disease was negative. Urinalysis revealed slightly cloudy, yellow urine, with 1+ protein by dipstick, squamous cells, and mucus. Cardiac ultrasonography, performed at the bedside in the emergency department, revealed decreased cardiac function, with poor visualization of the right ventricle and no evidence of pericardial effusion. Thoracic ultrasonography revealed lung sliding and multiple B-line artifacts bilaterally. Bilevel positive airway pressure was administered but was discontinued when vomiting occurred. Aspirin, atorvastatin, furosemide, ondansetron, and morphine were administered, and a heparin infusion was begun. A cardiology consultation was obtained, and the patient was admitted to the cardiac intensive care unit (ICU) 4 hours after presentation. On examination in the cardiac ICU, the patient appeared to be in respiratory distress and reported having air hunger. The respiratory rate was 32 breaths per minute, and the oxygen satuAnteroposterior chest radiographs that were obtained at the time of the initial evaluation (Panel A) and 9 hours later (Panel B) show indistinct pulmonary vessels, perihilar and bibasilar opacities, and bilateral pleural effusions, findings that are compatible with progres‑ sively worsening pulmonary edema. Cardiac pacing pads and other support devices are visible on both radiographs.ration 93% while she was breathing oxygen through a nasal cannula at a rate of 6 liters per minute. There was trace edema of the legs. The remainder of the examination was unchanged. In the cardiac ICU, dyspnea persisted and fatigue increased. The blood levels of triglycerides, high-density lipoproteins, low-density lipoproteins, glycated hemoglobin, vitamin B 12 , and folate were normal; other test results are shown in . One dose of ticagrelor was administered, followed by a nitroglycerin infusion and doses of vancomycin, cefepime, and furosemide. Dr. Lu: A chest radiograph  showed progression of the multifocal opacities in the lungs and enlarging pleural effusions. These findings are compatible with worsening pulmonary edema. Dr. Mohammed Ali: Transthoracic echocardiography was performed to evaluate the ongoing chest pain and the shortness of breath that was associated with respiratory failure. The left ventricular systolic function was moderately impaired; the left ventricle had a normal size and increased wall thickness. The right ventricular size and systolic function were normal, and the estimated right ventricular systolic pressure was 46 mm Hg. The left atrium was enlarged, with thickening of the anterior and posterior mitralvalve leaflets and mild-to-moderate mitral regurgitation but no other valvular disease. Bilateral pleural effusions and a small pericardial effusion without hemodynamic significance were noted. Pulsed-wave Doppler imaging of the mitral valve revealed a restrictive filling pattern, with a very high early diastolic filling velocity (E wave), a short deceleration time (<130 msec), and a low late diastolic filling velocity (A wave) ( ; and Video 1, available with full text of this article at NEJM.org). Dr. Kattan: Approximately 10 hours after the patient's arrival in the cardiac ICU (approximately 14 hours after presentation), she was sedated and paralyzed, and the trachea was electively intubated. Mechanical ventilation was initiated. Dr. Ali: Shortly thereafter, a pulmonary-artery catheter was inserted, and coronary-artery angiography revealed diffuse, minimal nonobstructive coronary artery disease. On hemodynamic assessment, the pressure was 13/11 mm Hg with a mean of 10 mm Hg in the right atrium, 48/7 mm Hg in the right ventricle, and 49/27 mm Hg with a mean of 34 mm Hg in the pulmonary artery; the pulmonary-capillary wedge pressure was 25 mm Hg. Cardiac output, measured by means of thermodilution, was 2.9 liters per minute (cardiac index, 1.7 liters per minute per square meter of* To convert the values for lactic acid to milligrams per deciliter, divide by 0.1110. To convert the values for glucose to millimoles per liter, multiply by 0.05551. To convert the values for creatinine to micromoles per liter, multiply by 88.4. To convert the values for cholesterol to millimoles per liter, multiply by 0.02586. † Reference values are affected by many variables, including the patient population and the laboratory methods used. The ranges used at Massachusetts General Hospital are for adults who are not pregnant and do not have medical conditions that could affect the results. They may therefore not be appropriate for all patients. ‡ If the patient is black, multiply the result by 1.21. ), and the total complement level was 191 U per milliliter (reference range, 63 to 145). Levels of C3, C4, ferritin, and thyrotropin were normal, and testing for antinuclear antibodies (ANA), human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2, celiac disease, and cryoproteins was negative. The patient was transferred to the cardiac telemetry unit. Analysis of a urine specimen revealed a high level of kappa Bence Jones protein in three molecular forms, as well as trace albumin. A dermatology consultation was obtained to evaluate the rash. Dr. Daniel Y. Sugai (Dermatology): On examination of the skin, there were purpuric and ecchymotic plaques, macules, and papules on the face (particularly affecting the perioral region), neck, trunk, and arms , as well as violaceous macules on the dorsal and lateral tongue and perianal ecchymoses. There was no purpura around the eyes after pinching (pinch purpura) and no macroglossia. The conjunctivae were clear, and the nails were normal. Dr. Kattan: A diagnostic procedure was performed.
the diagnosis of systemic amyloidosis, we performed a 4-mm punch biopsy of a large purpuric patch on the lower right abdomen.
was transferred to home hospice, and she died 4 months after she received her diagnosis. A Physician: Was an autopsy performed to confirm the speculation about amyloid and the heart? Dr. Bradshaw: Since it was not entirely clear that her cardiac symptoms were due to amyloid, we discussed the possibility of performing a limited autopsy to obtain myocardial tissue. However, permission for the autopsy was not obtained. Dr. Ali: In a patient with cardiac amyloidosis, one may expect to see nondilated left ventricular thickening, right ventricular thickening, prominent valves, and increased echogenicity of the myocardium (with a granular sparkling appearance). A restrictive pattern on Doppler echocardiography and progression of diastolic dysfunction are seen with advanced amyloid heart disease. 16-18 Although we did not see granular sparkling of the myocardium in this case, other echocardiographic features — such as nondilated left ventricular thickening, moderately impaired left ventricular function, thickening of the mitralvalve leaflets, and a restrictive filling pattern — were suggestive of cardiac amyloidosis. This patient had advanced cardiomyopathy, and thus the typical features of amyloidosis may not have been noted; in such a scenario, cardiac amyloidosis cannot be ruled out. Dr. Harris: If the levels of Bence Jones protein and free kappa light chains had been known before the cardiac catheterization was performed, would you have performed an endomyocardial biopsy during the procedure? Dr. Ali: The plan of care must be individualized according to the patient's circumstances and wishes, but we probably would have performed a cardiac biopsy if the patient had been younger and had had a more favorable prognosis or if the patient had been a candidate for cytotoxic therapy. Cardiac biopsy is associated with risks of cardiac perforation and cardiac tamponade, and therefore the procedure would need to be justified. In this case, cardiac biopsy was not performed because of the patient's age and other conditions. A Physician: In patients with cardiac amyloidosis, do you expect to find low voltage in the limb leads on ECG? Dr. Ali: Patients with infiltrative cardiac diseases have myocardial thickening and low voltage in the limb leads on ECG. 19 In patients with other causes of myocardial thickening, such as hypertrophy due to hypertension, you would expect to find high voltage in the limb leads on ECG.
