A 49-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for the evaluation of abdominal mass. His past medical history was relevant for BCS. Eight years ago, the patient was referred to our department for varicose vein on the abdominal wall. The physical examination was significant for both lower extremities edema and abdominal distention. The diagnosis of BCS was suspected. The inferior vena cavoThe Budd-Chari syndrome (BCS) is a group of disorders of hepatic vein outflow at various levels from the hepatic veins to inferior vena cave. We describe a 49-year-old man with multiple intrahepatic lesions who had been diagnosed with the BCS. The inferior vena cavography showed hepatic vein occlusion and long-range obstruction of inferior vena cava. The biopsy proved to be hyperplastic nodules, also called large regenerative nodules (LRNs). Both benign regenerative nodules and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) appear in patients with BCC; however, published reports about the diagnosis and differential diagnosis are limited. The incidence of HCC in patients with BCS varies greatly depending on geography. This case illustrates that benign nodules can arise in BCS patients. We reviewed published reports and speculated that medical procedures leading to portal perfusion decrease may be associated with the development of these hyperplastic nodules. graphy showed hepatic vein occlusion and long-range obstruction of inferior vena cava . Tests for deficiencies of protein C, protein S, antithrombin III, or factor V Leiden mutation were all negative. He was diagnosed with the combined BCS, and received the MCAS. The clinical symptoms relived after the surgery. The patient received the ultrasonography per 6 months. On admission, the physical examination was significant for an enlarged liver palpable 10 cm below the costal margin and an enlarged spleen. The ultrasonography revealed the patent's artificial vessels and ascites. The contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan showed multiple, small, hypervascular lesions that had marked homogeneous enhancement during the arterial phase without washout in the portal phase and delayed phase ( ted partial thromboplastin time was 48.4 seconds, and fibrinogen was 2.17 g/L. Hepatitis B and C were all negative. The α-fetoprotein (AFP) level was 2.2 ng/ mL, which is considered normal. Indocyanine green retention at 15 minutes was 42.3%. The patient had one of the largest lesions biopsied, which were histologically proven to be hyperplastic nodules . In this report we use the term " large regenerative nodules (LRNs) " to refer to these nodules. 5 During the follow-up period for 6 months, there was no notable change in size, and the patient stayed in good condition.
