A 66-year-old Caucasian male with arterial hypertension and coronary disease, reported a sensation of abdominal pulsation to his cardiologist. He did not suffer from any other symptoms, including muscle pain, claudication or scrotal swelling. Thirteen years earlier, he had suffered a heart attack. In 2008, he was treated by coronary artery bypass surgery and had been under regular medical supervision to date. He did not suffer from diabetes or any renal disorders. After physical examination, the cardiologist referred the patient for Doppler-sonography examination, which revealed an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta (AAA). This diagnosis was subsequently confirmed by computed tomography (CT) angiography (64-row MDCT scanner, LightSpeed VCT, GE, Waukesha, Wisconsin, USA). The AAA begun about 40 mm below the renal arteries, and had a maximum transverse diameter of 79 mm. The diameters of the right and left common iliac arteries were 14 mm, and 15 mm respectively. The patient was qualified and gave consent for endovascular treatment. Endovascular aortic repair (EVAR) was performed in February 2012. Standard aseptic approach was used. The device used was Stentgraft Powerlink 28-16140 BL, 28-28-95 RL (Endologix, Irvine, CA, USA). Recovery was uneventful and the patient was discharged from the hospital. A control dual-phase helical CT was performed on an MDCT scanner (64-row MDCT scanner, LightSpeed VCT, GE, Waukesha, Wisconsin, USA) after an injection of nonionic iodinate contrast medium (Iomeron 400, Bracco Mediolan, Italy). The contrast material (1.5 mg/kg) was injected into a vessel of 4 mL/s through an intravenous cannula. Scanning was started 25 s (first phase) and 60 s (second phase) after the initiation of contrast bolus. Images were reconstructed at every 0.625 mm interval.Three-dimensional CT reconstruction and measurement of the diameters of the abdominal vessels were performed using Advantage Workstation software (GE). CT confirmed prosperity with stent graft fixation and absence of any vascular complications, especially endoleaks . CT also showed also a variation of abdominal veins – an unusual duplication of the inferior vena cava . Both IVC appeared to originate from the confluence of the right and left common iliac veins . Next, they ran cranially on the contra-lateral postero-lateral wall of the abdominal aorta . The right inferior vena cava (RIVC) was significantly larger in diameter than the left inferior vena cava (LIVC) (19.5 mm vs. 11.5 mm) . RIVC and LIVC passed through diaphragm by openings for inferior caval vein and between lateral and medial arcuate ligaments, respectively. Based on the topography and diameter of the vessel, we suppose that LIVC continued in the thorax as the hemiazygos vein. At the level of hilum of the left kidney, left renal vein joints with LIVC . Right testicular vein opened into RIVC. Left testicular vein opened into left renal vein near its termination . Measurements of the vessels of the abdomen (including level of measurements) are presented in .
