A previously healthy 8-year-old girl developed severe neck pain while dancing. She also reported feeling a 'pop' as the pain developed. Over a 6-week period, she became increasingly lethargic with progressively worsening mobility. After a further week, she attended the casualty department of the local district general hospital unable to walk. Clinical examination on admission revealed MRC grade 3/5 spastic tetraparesis and urinary retention. Spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed an epidural lesion compressing the theca on the right from C4/5 to C7/T1 levels . The lesion was centrally bright on T1weighted imaging with a peripheral lower signal intensity rim. The signal characteristics of this lesion were consistent with an acute or subacute epidural haematoma. No other abnormality was seen in the neuroaxis. All haematological investigations on admission were within normal limits. The girl was taken for an urgent C5–C7 laminoplasty and evacuation of haematoma. Significant bleeding was encountered from abnormally dilated arterialised epidural veins, which was quickly controlled by diathermy. These veins extended caudal to the laminotomy , but as no vascular imaging was available to provide architectural R. Sivakumaran Á C. L. Chandler Á D. C. Walsh Department of Neurosurgery, King's College Hospital, London, UK R. Sivakumaran (&) Academic Neurosurgery Unit, St George's University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London SW17 0RE, UK e-mail: ramsivakumaran@doctors.org.uk A. King Á I. Bodi Department of Neuropathology, King's College Hospital, London, UK D. C. Walsh Institute of Psychiatry, King's College University, London, UK information (on what we believed to be an arteriovenous malformation), we elected not to extend the exposure within the immature spine. With the existing exposure, the abnormal vessels were removed from the dural sac and excellent haemostasis achieved. Once the veins at the level of exposure had been excised, the bleeding from the remaining veins was evidently no longer arterial. Post-operatively, the child awoke immediately to make a good neurological recovery over the subsequent 3 weeks. At discharge, she was ambulant independently with normal bladder function. Time-resolved imaging of contrast kinetics (TRICKS) sequence MRI scan performed postoperatively did not show any residual haematoma or abnormal vasculature. Histology revealed blood clot and a complex arrangement of vessels with varying wall thickness, including venous like structures but with fibrous thickening and some arterialized vessels with thinner walls . The features were those of a vascular malformation, consistent with an AVM. An otherwise healthy 13-year-old boy developed suddenonset interscapular pain with no obvious precipitating cause. The following day, he developed progressively severe lower limb weakness and urinary retention. He was admitted to a local children's hospital where neurological examination revealed paraplegia (MRC grade 0/5) with areflexia, loss of anal tone and a T4 sensory level. MRI of the thoracic spine  demonstrated a mixed-signal epidural lesion located posteriorly and to the left extending between C7/T1 and T4/5. The lesion displaced the spinal cord anteriorly and its signal characteristics were most in keeping with an acute or subacute epidural haematoma.He underwent emergency T1–T5 laminoplasty and evacuation of an epidural haematoma and resection of an AVM. Histological analysis revealed fragments of haemorrhagic tissue containing vascular channels with abnormally thick and irregular walls, which were also, in places, very thin . These findings were consistent with the presence of an arteriovenous malformation. Post-operatively, this boy's neurological deficit had improved to MRC grade 4/5. At the time of discharge from hospital, he still experienced intermittent urinary incontinence but was able to walk without assistance. By 3 months post-operatively, he was independently ambulant with very mild right lower extremity weakness on close scrutiny of his gait, though his intermittent urinary continence persisted. MRI of his thoracic spine performed at that time demonstrated no flow voids or abnormal contrast enhancement pattern to indicate residual vascular malformation.
