A 65-year-old woman, with longstanding ankylosing spondylitis in drug-induced clinical remission, was admitted to our medical center for investigation of new onset back pain with evidence of significant systemic inflammation. Her past medical history included ischemic heart disease with coronary artery bypass grafting a few years prior to her admission. She had been under treatment with etanercept 50 mg once weekly for 3 years prior to her admission and had achieved Assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society (ASAS) remission. One year prior to her admission, she began complaining of mild cervical pain. Laboratory examinations revealed elevated markers of inflammation—C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), with no peripheral synovitis nor limitation of axial flexion. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated C3–5 discopathy with no evidence of nerve root compression nor osteitis. One month prior to her admission, she began complaining of progressive aggravation of her back pain and was, therefore, referred for further evaluation. On admission, her vital signs were normal and her physical examination was unremarkable: there were no tender or swollen joints and no signs of enthesitis; lateral spinal flexion, chest expansion, and occiput to wall distance were normal, and Schober test was mildly restricted (14 cm) with no deterioration compared to her previous examination. Ophthalmologic examination showed no signs of uveitis nor retinal pathology. Laboratory tests revealed normocytic anemia (hemoglobin 9 mg/dl) and an elevated acute phase response (CRP 239 mg/ dl, ESR>100 mm/h). Blood cultures were sterile including a negative Rose Bengal test for brucellosis and a negative purified protein derivative (PPD) test for tuberculous (TB). Initial immunologic serologies were significant for borderline positivity of ANA, negative rheumatoid factor, and normal complement levels. Chest X-ray (CXR) was normal. A thoracic-abdominal computed tomography angiography (CTA) study displayed major concentric wall thickening of the left subclavian artery, descending aorta, and the bilateral iliac arteries—consistent with extensive and severe aortitis/ large vessel vasculitis (Figs. 1 and 2) that was not evident in a previous CTA that was done 2 years prior to her admission, in order to rule out a paraneoplastic phenomenon. No mediastinal lymph node enlargement was demonstrated on imaging; hence, with a negative PPD test, tuberculous aortitis which can cause c-ANCA-positive reaction was not likely. Subsequently, a positive c-ANCA test and high myeloperoxidase (MPO) antibody titer were found. She was treated with a pulse of intravenous methylprednisolone 1 g for 3 days and etanercept treatment discontinued. Following treatment, her CRP declined to 27 mg/dl and her back pain resolved. She was discharged from the hospital with treatment of prednisone 30 mg/day and recommendation for treatment with IV rituximab.
