This study was based on a retrospective multi-centre case series carried out in five major rheumatology clinics in Ankara. The chart reviews of 141 GPA patients who were followed-up since January 2000 were studied. All patients fulfilled the classification criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) for GPA . Physical examinations, laboratory and histological findings, treatment protocols, and clinical outcomes of patients with retro-orbital granuloma were recorded. The initial treatment protocol was classified as the first-line chemotherapy, and if this failed, the next treatment was classified as the second-line chemotherapy. Responses to therapy were assessed depending on (1) the alterations in granuloma size on sequential MRIs, and (2) visual acuity in repeated ophthalmic examinations. Regression was defined as the complete disappearance of the mass or a decrease in size >50 %, with or without an improvement in visual acuity. Minimal regression was defined as a decrease in size <50 %, with or without an improvement in visual acuity. Stable disease was defined as 'no significant change' in the size of the granuloma or visual acuity. Progressive disease was defined either as a further increase in the size of the lesion and the appearance of new vasculitic lesions on MRI or the progressive loss of visual acuity during treatment. Visual impairment was defined as a oneline loss on the visual acuity chart (Snellen chart) as compared to the previous examination. Total loss of vision was defined as the complete lack of perception of visual stimuli. ANCA testing was performed both by indirect immunofluorescence antibody (IFA) tests and ELISAs in all patients.
Case 4 had received pulse CYC (1 g monthly for 1 year and then 1 g bimonthly) for 2 years for nasopharynx and trachea involvement when retro-orbital granuloma was diagnosed. For that reason, pulse CYC was not considered as a first-line agent and RTX therapy was used. The orbital granuloma size decreased with RTX; however, visual acuity did not change. Case 9 had received pulse CYC therapy for pulmonary involvement 11 years prior to the development of retroorbital granuloma. The patient had contracted CMV pneumonia after receiving a total of 3 g CYC. CYC was then discontinued, and IVIG was given for 10 days and 25 mg parenteral MTX was given weekly for 2 years. The pulmonary disease was well controlled by this treatment. When the eye involvement developed, the patient was not receiving any therapy and was given RTX as a first-line therapy. After two courses of RTX, mass size decreased and visual acuity was preserved.
