A 40-year-old woman developed a painful, nonblanching rash limited to the palmar aspect of the hands one week following a fetal death-in-utero associated with severe, early onset pre-eclampsia. She originally presented to our service in her third pregnancy with new-onset hypertension and significant proteinuria at 20 weeks gestation. Her past history included a first trimester miscarriage at 12 weeks, amenorrhoea and a second fetal loss at 19 weeks gestation. Following this second episode, a diagnosis of primary aPL syndrome was made. She did not demonstrate any clinical or biochemical features suggestive of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or any other autoimmune disease. In this pregnancy she had been on aspirin (100 mg daily) and prophylactic dose low-molecular weight heparin from six weeks gestation. Following admission, an ultrasound confirmed fetal demise associated with significant growth restriction. Peak abnormalities in her investigations at this time are listed in . The blood pressure was controlled with labetalol and nifedipine and she subsequently underwent an uncomplicated induction of labour with misoprostol. She was discharged from the ward two days later with plans to continue on prophylactic enoxaparin 40 mg for a further six weeks. On the day of discharge she had noted tenderness of the thenar eminence of the left hand without any trauma or skin changes. She represented to hospital three days later with symptoms of endometritis and was treated with intravenous antibiotics. At that time she described increasing Correspondene to: Archana S. Thayaparan, Royal Hospital for Women, Barker Street, Randwick, Sydney, New South Wales 2031, Australia. Email: archana.selvakumar@gmail.com tenderness of the thenar eminence with development of a non-blanching, tender, reticulated rash, affecting first the left and later both hands . Distribution of the rash was scattered over the palmar aspect of the hands. There was no rash on the dorsum of the hands, face or body and no mucosal changes. The rash predated antibiotic exposure and was not urticarial in nature. Skin biopsy confirmed intravascular thrombi with mild perivascular infiltrate of lymphocytes and eosinophils but without evidence of vasculitis (i.e. fibrinoid necrosis of vessel walls, neutrophils and extravasated red cells) . Immunofluorescence was unremarkable. She was commenced on warfarin therapy, with low-molecular weight heparin bridging, aiming for a target INR of 2.5–3. Following introduction of warfarin, there was immediate improvement in the rash which resolved over days.
A 41-year-old woman with known primary aPL syndrome was being treated during her firstCutaneous pseudovasculitis, antiphospholipid syndrome and obstetric misadventure AS Thayaparan and SA Lowe Lupus pregnancy with low dose aspirin and therapeutic enoxaparin 1 mg/kg/bd. In addition she had mild thyrotoxicosis related to a multinodular goiter for which she was receiving propylthiouracil 50 mg bd. She had no other history or features of autoimmune disease. She presented at 26 weeks gestation with hypertension, proteinuria, worsening of her pre-existing thrombocytopenia and intrauterine growth restriction. At the same time she developed new-onset weakness in the left hand and a subsequent MRI scan demonstrated a right middle cerebral artery branch infarct. A number of differential diagnoses were considered, including severe pre-eclampsia, SLE, aPL syndrome and vasculitis, possibly related to propylthiouracil. In view of the worsening maternal and fetal condition, antihypertensive therapy was commenced with labetalol, prednisone 25 mg was commenced, her anticoagulation was suspended for 24 hours and she underwent elective Caesarean section delivering a female infant weighing 880 g at 28 weeks gestation. Peak abnormalities in her investigations at this time are listed in . Post-partum she developed worsening liver function and renal function along with a new painful, reticulated rash on the palmar aspect of the hands. She was treated with oral prednisone 1 mg/kg daily, a two-day course of intravenous methylprednisolone 500 mg, hydroxychloroquine 200 mg/day, labetalol 300 mg tds and prazosin 1 mg nocte. Biopsies of the kidney and skin rash were performed along with placental histopathology. Following delivery and these biopsies, the low dose aspirin was continued and the enoxaparin was replaced with warfarin (Target INR 3.0). The rash resolved over the following 3–5 days. The renal biopsy demonstrated vascular and glomerular changes consistent with thrombotic microangiopathy (acute and chronic stages). The glomeruli had some endothelial swelling but no distinct glomeruloendotheliosis, the characteristic feature of pre-eclampsia. There was mild–moderate acute tubular injury (acute tubular necrosis). Immunofluorescence was negative. The skin rash was also consistent with thrombotic vasculopathy affecting superficial and middermis, with some associated focal leucocytoclastic vasculitis in the deeper dermis . The presence of a positive PR3-ANCA was attributed to the concurrent administration of propylthiouracil, and the skin features were not consistent with true vasculitis; namely the absence of fibrinoid necrosis of vessel walls, neutrophils and extravasated red cells, and immunofluorescence of the vessel walls was negative. The placental pathology demonstrated a normalsized placenta for this gestation, with two moderate-sized peripheral infarcts, decidual vasculopathy and prominent syncytial knots, consistent with chronic ischaemic changes, as has been described in maternal aPL syndrome. The rash on the hands resolved completely within days of commencing warfarin. Medical treatment with warfarin, low dose steroids and hydroxychloroquine was continued and the hypertension, thrombocytopenia, renal impairment, liver dysfunction, rash and neurological symptoms and signs also recovered back to pre-pregnancy levels. The baby had an uncomplicated course in the Neonatal Intensive Care and is progressing well.
