A 51 year old female was diagnosed with polycythemia vera (JAK2 V617F) during her initial presentation with acute Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS). Attempts to stent the occluded hepatic vein were unsuccessful and the patient underwent a transjugular intrahepatic porto-systemic shunt procedure which allowed for control of her ascites. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed approximately one month after the presentation to follow up a 1.7 cm subcapsular heterogeneous lesion found on liver ultrasound. A 1.6 cm subcapsular lesion in segment 5  was suggestive of a regenerative or dysplastic nodule and, less likely, of a well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). A follow-up MRI in 6 months showed numerous nodular lesions scattered throughout the liver. The original lesion had grown to 2.9 cm. An MRI in another 11 months (19 months since the diagnosis of BCS) showed an interval increase in size and extent of what were now innumerable hypervascular liver lesions  These features were worrisome for metastatic process of a hypervascular primary tumor, such as carcinoid, breast carcinoma or melanoma and, less likely, primary hepatic malignancy. One of the liver nodules was biopsied. The liver biopsy showed architectural distortion, with lack of portal tracts, 1-2 cell thick plates with hyperplastic hepatocytes, cholestatic rosettes, and focal lymphocytic aggregates . The nuclei were round, isochromatic and without prominent nucleoli. A focal area of atrophic hepatocytes with adjacent sinusoidal dilatation was also noted . In addition, fibrous septae containing bile ductules were present . The hepatocellular lesion was negative for glypican-3, serum amyloid A, C-reactive protein, and β-catenin immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemical study for glutamine synthetase was unsuccessful due to exhausted tissue. The histologic findings were consistent with focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH). No further treatment was recommended. The patient is followed at regular intervals and is well 2 years after the liver biopsy.
: 547-549
