A 76-year-old man presented to a local clinic with a dry cough and exertional dyspnea. Because his symptoms were refractory and progressively worsened over the course of a month, he was admitted to our hospital for further examination. His body weight had decreased by 10 kg over the previous 3 months. The physical examination on admission revealed no significant abnormalities, and the superficial lymph nodes were not palpable. Laboratory tests revealed anemia and coagulation abnormalities (hemoglobin concentration, 12.2 g/dL; prothrombin time-international normalized ratio, 1.36; activated partial thromboplastin time, 35.9 s; and fibrinogen level, 697 mg/dL). The level of surfactant protein-D (SP-D) was elevated (151.1 ng/mL), whereas the level of Krebs von den Lungen-6 (KL-6) was within the normal range. The laboratory tests also indicted elevated levels of C-reactive protein (4.7 mg/dL) and carcinoembryonic antigen (6.8 ng/mL). Moreover, we did not observe any immunological abnormalities, such as aberrant leukocyte counts, unusual immunoglobulin or complement levels, or autoantibodies. A blood gas analysis in the atmosphere of room air revealed hypoxia (pH, 7.44; PaO2, 66.2 Torr; PaCO2, 36.7 Torr). A chest X-ray showed bilateral GGO, and a chest CT demonstrated small nodules and linear opacities around and inside GGO which were predominantly located in the peripheral lung field and spared the subpleural space . A sputum culture was negative for bacteria, and no abnormal findings were detected on the sputum cytology. Based on the radiological findings, we initially considered diffuse alveolar hemorrhage or eosinophilic pneumonia as the provisional diagnosis; however, these were excluded due to the absence of hemosiderin-laden macrophages and eosinophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. A transbronchial lung biopsy (TBLB) specimen from right B 1 demonstrated marked alveolar wall thickening with cuboidal metaplasia . Accordingly, we tentatively diagnosed the patient with interstitial pneumonia of unknown cause. We started the patient on oral prednisolone (30 mg/day) for the hypoxia symptoms. However, the second CT examination on day 26 of admission showed deterioration of the abnormal shadows . GGO and linear opacities had extended, and new cavitary nodular lesions were seen. Thus, we suspected a secondary fungal infection and discontinued prednisolone therapy. BFS was repeated to obtain sufficient material to confirm the pathological diagnosis. The histopathological examination of the specimens from the second TBLB from right B 5 and B 8 demonstrated microemboli composed of cancer cells inside the pulmonary artery branches; this problem was also
