A 69-year-old man, who had been diagnosed with HCC due to hepatitis C virus-related liver cirrhosis 4 years previously , had been undergoing repeated treatment with transcatheter arterial therapy. He underwent his 8th transcatheter arterial therapy (Lipiodol transcatheter arterial injection; Lip-TAI) 1 month prior to his admission. Lip-TAI was performed after the presence of an A-P shunt was confirmed on arteriography at the 6th transcatheter arterial therapy. With the 8th transcatheter arterial therapy, an arterial catheter was inserted into the right femoral artery using the Seldinger method and advanced to the hepatic artery. The feeding artery for the HCC was selected and a solution containing 30 mg of cisplatin (IA call, Nihon Kayaku Pharmacy, Tokyo, Japan) and 3.0 mL of iodized oil (Lipiodol, Department of Gastroenterology and Rheumatology, Fukushima Medical University School of Medicine, Japan Received for publication June 5, 2015; Accepted for publication July 2, 2015 Correspondence to Dr. Atsushi Takahashi, junior@fmu.ac.jpTerumo, Tokyo, Japan) was injected through a 2.3-F microcatheter. No obvious portal vein thrombosis (PVT) was detected during the therapy . Moreover, there was no thrombosis within the extrahepatic portal venous system including superior mesenteric vein. The patient was referred to our hospital with abdominal pain 26 days after the 8th arteriotherapy (Lip-TAI). On admission, his consciousness was clear and his body temperature was 36.1. The conjunctivae were not jaundiced, and his heart and respiratory sounds were normal. No abnormalities of the chest and skin were identified. The abdomen was soft and distended, showing tenderness in the periumbilical region without signs of peritoneal irritation or audible bowel sounds. A laboratory examination on admission revealed an inflammatory status [white blood cells, 11,000/μL; Creactive protein (CRP), 4.54 mg/dL] ( . Abdominal Xray and computed tomography (CT) showed the noticeable accumulation of small intestinal gas and PVT from the main portal vein to the superior mesenteric or splenic vein, respectively . Paralytic ileus due to superior mesenteric vein thrombosis was diagnosed based on these findings. Because there was no apparent intestinal tract necrosis on CT, anticoagulation therapy composed of heparin, antithrombin III, and danaparoid sodium was initiated immediately after the insertion of the ileus tube. After the treatment resulted in the reduction of both small intestinal gas and PVT, heparin was changed to warfarin. The clinical findings steadily improved and the patient was discharged 21 daysactivity, APTT: activated partial thromboplastin time, FDP: fibrinogen degradation products, TAT: thrombin-antithrombin complex, PIC: plasmin-2 plasmin inhibitor complex, AST: aspartate aminotransferase, ALT: alanine aminotransferase, ALP: alkaline phosphatase,-GTP:-glutamyl transpeptidase, T.Bil: total bilirubin, D.Bil: direct bilirubin, LDH: lactate dehydrogenase, CRP: C-reactive protein, AFP:-fetoprotein, PIVKA II: protein induced by vitamin K absence or antagonist II after admission .
