Between 2007 and 2014, we performed pancreatectomy for 245 patients with pNET, of whom 26 (11 %) required surgical management of tumor involvement of the portal vein, superior mesenteric vein, or its first-order tributaries concomitant with pancreatectomy. Among all 245 patients, portal tumor thrombectomy was performed concomitant with pancreatectomy in 9 (3.8 %) patients. All nine had non-functioning tumors, and eight (89 %) had tumors confined to the distal pancreas. Six (67 %) were treated with systemic therapy using streptozocin, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) with or without doxorubicin for a median of 7.5 cycles (range 2 to 15) prior to pancreatectomy. Seven (78 %) patients are alive at a median followup of 33 months (range 3 to 97); one died within a year and another 4 years after surgery. The clinical courses of three illustrative patients are described in detail below, and all cases are presented in .
A 54-year-old woman with a remote history of breast cancer presented with an 11.2×6.5 cm well-differentiated pNET in the pancreatic body in the setting of abdominal pain, early satiety, and weight loss . On baseline imaging, the mass appeared to involve the posterior gastric wall and splenic flexure and tumor was found to invade into the splenic vein and extend into the splenoportal confluence. Nine cycles of induction chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil and streptozocin were administered leading to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) stable disease prior to distal pancreatectomy, partial gastrectomy, and segmental colectomy. At surgery, tumor thrombus within the portosplenic confluence was extracted via a longitudinal portal venotomy that was repaired primarily. Examination of the resected specimen showed a well-differentiated pNET with tumor extension into the peripancreatic tissue and lymphovascular invasion. Six of ten peripancreatic lymph nodes were positive for metastatic disease, and the tumor involved both the gastric and splenic vein margins. More than 50 % of tumor cells were viable. Her postoperative course was uncomplicated. Thirty-six months following surgery, the patient developed peritoneal carcinomatosis and was treated with everolimus and, later, sunitinib; she remains alive with recurrence 97 months after the operation. A 46-year-old woman with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN I) presented with a 3.3-cm well-differentiated pNET of the pancreatic body that invaded into the splenic and portal veins in the setting of abdominal pain, chronic pancreatitis, and hypergastrinemia . Distal pancreatectomy, splenectomy, left adrenalectomy, and extraction of tumor thrombus through the splenic vein orifice were performed primarily. Duodenotomy with excision of duodenal wall gastrinomas was performed concomitantly. Histopathologic analysis revealed an intermediate grade pNET; 1 out of 50 lymph nodes were positive for metastatic pNET. Postoperatively, she suffered from an International Study Group of Pancreatic Fistula (ISGPF) grade C pancreatic leak, GI bleeding requiring transfusion, cellulitis, and pancreatitis (maximum accordion grade of 4) but recovered completely. Thirty-three months following surgery, recurrence was identified in the liver and a right upper quadrant nodule was suspected; the patient opted to continue observation.
A 38-year-old woman complaining of diarrhea, weight loss, abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting presented with a 15.7× 7.1 cm pNET of the pancreatic body that invaded the spleen,the posterior wall of the stomach, and the portosplenic confluence via the splenic vein . Induction chemotherapy with 12 cycles of 5-FU, doxorubicin, and streptozocin followed by 3 cycles of 5-FU and streptozocin was administered leading to RECIST stable disease. A distal pancreatectomy with en bloc gastrectomy, splenectomy, left adrenalectomy, cholecystectomy, and venotomy with extraction of portal venous tumor thrombus was subsequently performed . Histopathologic examination revealed an intermediate grade pNET with perineural and lymphovascular invasion and metastatic pNET in 2 of 32 lymph nodes. The postoperative course was uneventful, and she is free of disease 23 months after surgery.
