A 73-year-old man with a history of myocardial infarction (MI) visited our hospital with a history of intermittent claudication lasting for six years. The culprit lesion of the MI was the first diagonal branch of the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) (seg.6), which had been successfully treated with bare metal stent implantation three weeks prior to the patient's current visit. However, angiography showed chronic total occlusion (CTO) of the midLAD with a moderate collateral flow from the left circumflex and right coronary arteries. The patient's comorbid coronary risk factors included hypertension, dyslipidemia and current smoking. He had no history of vasculitis, allergies or autoimmune diseases. Upon an examination, the bilateral common femoral arteries were not palpable. The patient's body mass index was 21.6 kg/m 2 , with the following laboratory data: hemoglobin, 12.8 g/dL; serum creatinine, 0.85 mg/dL (estimated GFR, 65 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ); hemoglobin A1C, 5.7%; and total cholesterol, 144 mg/dL (under statin treatment). Sinus rhythm with T wave inversion in leads I and aVL was noted on an electrocardiogram. The anklebrachial index (ABI) was very low on both sides (right: 0.41, left: 0.39), and severe bilateral limb artery stenosis and/or occlusion was suspected. A three-dimensional computed tomography (3D-CT) angiogram subsequently indicated bilateral AIOD . Although the patient first planned to undergo open surgery, vascular surgeons at our institution believed that open surgery in this case would carry high perioperative risks because the proximal occluding lesion was located just below the renal arteries (high take off) and a large CTO lesion remained in the mid-LAD.In addition, the patient strongly refused to undergo open surgery. Regarding the mid-LAD CTO lesion, we planned to perform percutaneous coronary intervention following treatment for AIOD. We approached the occluding lesion from three points, including the bilateral femoral arteries using 6-F sheaths and the left brachial artery using a 4-F sheath. First, we approached the lesion from the left femoral groin and left brachial artery with a 4-Fr 90-cm long sheath and employed a 0.018 " Astato wire (Asahi Intecc, Nagoya, Japan) to successfully penetrate the occluding lesion in an antegrade manner from the aorta to the left external iliac artery (EIA). The intravascular ultrasound system (IVUS) showed that almost all wire paths traced the true lumen, although only the common iliac artery (CIA) lesion was suspected to be located in the subintima. The wire was changed to a 0.014 " Spindle 300 (Asahi Intecc) from the left femoral sheath in a retrograde fashion. We subsequently used the bilateral approach on the right side of the occluding lesion, and both 0.018 " Truefinder superhard (Zeon, Tokyo, Japan) wires from the right femoral sheath and left brachial sheath eventually touched together at the iliac bifurcation . The ENSnare device (Merit medical systems, South Jordan, USA) was used to pull the mass into the right groin sheath, which allowed us to successfully penetrate it from the aorta to the right common femoral artery (CFA). We then changed the wire to a 0.014 " Spindle 300 from the right femoral sheath in a retrograde fashion, as on the left side. IVUS on this side also showed that almost all wire paths traced the true lumen, although only the CIA was suspected to be located in the subintima.were successfully implanted from the abdominal aorta to the bilateral EIA, covering the entire occluded site . While neither stent expanded sufficiently, post-dilatation was performed using relatively small balloons [Starling and RxGenity (Kaneka, Osaka, Japan) 6×100 mm]. However, the patient experienced severe pain during CIA dilation, and we were unable to expand the stent sufficiently. Although postdilation was considered incomplete, final arteriography showed successful recanalization from the abdominal aorta to the bilateral EIA . The total time of the procedure was 4 hours and 45 minutes, the amount of contrast medium administered was 200 mL and the exposure time was 111 minutes and 37 seconds (the estimated exposure dose was 1.1 Gy). The postoperative ABI was elevated (right: 0.54, left: 0.61), the intermittent claudication improved and the patient was discharged three days after the procedure. At the two-month follow-up, ABI showed a lower score for the right side (right: 0.49, left: 0.92). Contrast-enhanced CT also showed complete occlusion of the stent site from the right CIA to EIA. Therefore, we planned additional EVT for the occluding lesion. Arteriography images obtained during the second EVT procedure are shown in . We approached the lesion from the left brachial artery using a 6-F sheath and the right femoral groin using a 4-F sheath. The occluding lesion was penetrated by a 0.035 " J-tip wire with a 4-F 65-cm GlideCath (Terumo, Tokyo, Japan) using the knuckle wire technique via the right femoral groin. The wire was then changed to a 0.014 " Spindle 300 from the right groin sheath, and the ENSnare device was employed to hang the Spindle wire , after which a 0.014 " Cruise wire(St. Jude Medical, St. Paul, USA) was passed in an antegrade fashion from the left brachial artery through the right CIA to the site of EIA occlusion (in order to deploy the stent via a 6-Fr brachial sheath). Pre-dilation [Amphilion deep 4×120 mm (Medtronic, Minneapolis, USA)] of the occluding lesion was performed, and an additional balloon expandable stent [ExpressLD (Boston Scientific) 7×27 mm] was implanted in the lesion occluding the right CIA , the site of incomplete dilation during the first EVT procedure, due to the patient's severe pain. No back pain was noted during stent implantation, and full expansion was obtained. Final arteriography showed successful recanalization of the right CIA to the EIA-occluding lesion. Two months after the second EVT procedure, the intermittent claudication improved completely. In addition, the ABI normalized (right: 1.01, left: 0.99), while CT showed good stent patency from the aorta to the bilateral EIA and a 3DCT angiogram indicated full expansion of the stents . The patient's post-EVT course has been uneventful for 18 months.
