A 28-year-old pregnant woman (G2P0A1) in her 3rd trimester was found to have labile refractory hypertension on regular prenatal care. She was admitted to the obstetric unit in our tertiary care center for management of her hypertension. While hospitalized, she developed headaches, chest tightness, nausea and vomiting, and continued to have refractory hypertension. A decision was made to take her to the operating room where she underwent an uneventful urgent lower transverse caesarian section. She tolerated the procedure well; however, postoperatively, her shortness of breath and chest tightness worsened. A provisional diagnosis of pulmonary edema prompted an echocardiogram that demonstrated an abnormality involving the left atrium. Computed tomography of the chest revealed a large (7.4 cm in diameter) posterior mediastinal mass splaying the carina, compressing the superior aspect of the left atrium, and possibly involving the right main pulmonary artery . Further work-up included a metanephrine profile, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, and an 123 I-metaiodobenzylguanidine scan which diagnosed a mediastinal pheochromocytoma. After a multidisciplinary team discussion, a decision was made to discharge the patient home once her blood pressure had been controlled by alpha blockade, with a plan for surgical resection in 4 weeks. A combined cardiac, thoracic, and endocrine surgery team was available on the day of the surgery. A bilateral clamshell thoracotomy was used for surgical exposure. The tumor was mobilized off the spine and aorta posteriorly, and the plane between the tumor and carina was freed. Anteriorly, the tumor involved the superior aspect of the left atrium and infiltratedCorresponding author: Eric LR Bédard, 416 Clinical Services Building, Royal Alexandra Hospital, 10240 Kingsway Avenue, Edmonton, Alberta, T5H 3V9 Canada. Email: ebedard@ualberta.ca laterally to both right pulmonary veins and the left superior pulmonary vein. The patient was placed on cardiopulmonary bypass to further aid resection. However, after 4.5 h of dissection while on cardiopulmonary bypass, the tumor was deemed unresectable due to the involvement of the pulmonary veins and extensive involvement of the left atrium. Debulking the tumor was considered unfeasible because of its vascular nature and cardiac involvement. The patient made an uneventful recovery. She is currently being assessed for a cardiopulmonary transplant and is being treated with lututim-177 octreotide therapy.
