A 52-year-old man presented with complaints of pain and a progressively increasing swelling in the upper part of the sternum of one month duration. He had dyspnea in New York Heart Association class II for the previous 15 days. He had been diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis 5 years earlier, which was treated with a full course of antitubercular therapy, and he had a history of multiple sexual contacts. Clinical examination revealed a tense swelling measuring 3 Â 4 cm with an expansile pulsation over the upper part of the sternum . A hemogram, biochemistry, coagulation profile, Mantoux and sputum tests for acid-fast bacilli were unremarkable, and viral markers of human immunodeficiency virus 1 and 2 and hepatitis B and C were negative. The Venereal Disease Research Laboratory test was positive for syphilis with a titre of 1/64 (significant for past infection) and a Treponema pallidum hemagglutination assay gave a titre of 1/200 (significant for active infection). Echocardiography revealed good biventricular function with an aneurysm of the distal ascending aorta. The aortic root diameter and aortic valve were normal. A computed tomography aortogram  confirmed a saccular aneurysm in the ascending aorta, extending proximally 6.3 cm from the aortic valve and distally to the level of the innominate artery origin, measuring 77 mm at its maximum diameter with sternal destruction and soft tissue swelling. Urgent surgical repair of the aneurysm was undertaken. The right axillary artery and femoral vein were cannulated. After establishing cardiopulmonary bypass, a left ventricular apex vent was placed through a separate anterolateralthoracotomy incision in the left fifth intercostal space. At a core temperature of 18 C (nasopharyngeal), the patient was placed in the Trendelenburg position and the cardiopulmonary bypass flow was reduced to a trickle. The chest was opened through a median sternotomy; partial entry was through the aneurysmal sac itself. An aneurysm eroding through the sternum with thrombotic narrowing of the left subclavian artery and tracheobronchial compression were noted. The sac was opened fully, the clots were removed, and the sac with a 3-cm mouth was excised . A single dose of antegrade del Nido cold blood cardioplegia was given. A bevelled 26-mm Dacron graft was anastomosed distally to the open arch, using 3/0 polypropylene suture. After clamping the graft, full pump flow was resumed and rewarming was started. Proximally, the graft was anastomosed to the ascending aorta above the sinotubular junction. The crossclamp was released after deairing. On full rewarming, the patient was weaned off cardiopulmonary bypass. Primary chest closure was carried out and the defect in the upper part of the sternum was covered by bilateral pectoral muscle flaps and approximated at the midline. The rest of the wound was closed conventionally. The postoperative period was uneventful. The patient was treated with intramuscular benzathine penicillin anddischarged in a hemodynamically stable condition. At the 3-month follow-up, computed tomography aortography was unremarkable .
