A 60 year old previously healthy female presented with intermittent dysphagia, odynophagia and loss of weight of 3 months duration. Her symptoms were non progressive. She was otherwise well. Physical examination was unremarkable except her BMI was 16 kg/m 2. Her upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a superficial mucosal irregularity from 25–35 cm with friability and contact bleeding. There was no evidence of external compression of the oesophagus on endoscopy. The biopsy of oesophageal lesion revealed a well differentiated squarmous cell carcinoma. Her preoperative contrast enhanced CT of thorax and abdomen showed a normal oesophagus without any luminal lesions or wall thickening. However, it showed an abnormal right subclavian artery  running behind the thoracic oesophagus above the carina. There was no evidence of locoregional spread, mediastinal lympadenopathy or evidence of distant metastases. Therefore she was planned for a transthoracic oesophagectomy. The thoracic cavity was approached by a mini thoracotomy as it provides adequate access to the oesophagus, aberrant vessel and associated with less post-operative respiratory complications when compared to conventional posterolateral thoracotomy. The oesophagus was mobilized from lower end to up wards. During thoracic oesophageal mobilization, there was an abnormal retrooesophageal R/subclavian artery arising from aortic arch above the carina . An upper abdominal incision followed by a cervical incision were also made to mobilize the stomach and create a cervical oesophagogastric anastomosis. Mediastinal lymphadenectomy was done. Cervical lymphadenectomy was not performed. The patient was managed in the surgical intensive care unit for 6 days. On post-operative day 2, she was extubated and gradually mobilized and started on chest physiotherapy. During this period she was well and recovery was uneventful. She was transferred to the surgical ward on post operative day seven and died suddenly most probably due to cardiac arrest or massive pulmonary embolism. Histopathological analysis of resected specimen of oesophagus  showed a well differentiated squarmous cell carcinoma (pT1N0R0).
