A 67-year-old woman who had been periodically followed up for hypothyroidism developed a refractory ulcer of the left lower limb in December 2013. Computed tomography (CT) arterial angiography showed occlusion of the bilateral superficial femoral arteries , and the patient was referred to our hospital for revascularization. She had been previously treated for hypothyroidism and exhibited a euthyroid status at referral. Her initial vital signs included a blood pressure of 145/80 mmHg and heart rate of 54 beats per minute. A chest X-ray revealed mild cardiomegaly with a cardiothoracic ratio of 57%, whereas an electrocardiogram was unremarkable ( , C), with the exception of occasional premature ventricular contractions. The ankle-brachial pressure index (ABI) was reduced bilaterally; however, the blood pressure in the left upper limb was 55 mmHg higher than that observed in the right upper limb (
of 56% with no evidence of clinically problematic valvular disease, and neck ultrasonography demonstrated an interruption of the blood flow in the proximal portion of the right subclavian artery and the collateral flow from the vertebral artery to the distal portion of the right subclavian artery ( , B, arrows). Ultrasonography of the lower limbs showed extensive plaque formation at the level of the bilateral iliac and common femoral arteries and occlusion of the bilateral superficial femoral arteries. Contrast-enhanced CT confirmed (sub) total occlusion of the proximal portion of the right subclavian artery ( , D), luminal narrowing of the left common carotid artery ( , arrowheads), wall thickening and luminal stenosis in the aorta and aortic arch branches with thickening and diffuse irregularities of the aortic wall ( , G) and luminal narrowing of the first branches from the aorta, including the celiac artery ( , arrow). 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) showed no enhanced uptake in the aorta or major arteries . Adenosine triphosphate-stress myocardial perfusion imaging with thallium-201 showed decreased, albeit reversible,in the anterior, inferior and posterior walls (data not shown). Coronary artery angiography showed 75% stenosis in the ostial region of the right coronary artery and severe stenosis in the ostial region of the left circumflex artery . Histology of biopsy specimens of the pigmented skin lesions on the lower limbs ( , B) showed prominent granulocytic and lymphocytic infiltration, which was also present in the periarterial regions, in addition to non-caseating epithelioid cell granuloma with multinucleated giant cells without vasculitis, leading to a diagno-sis of cutaneous sarcoidosis ( , D arrows). Laboratory studies showed a white blood cell (WBC) count of 3,460/μL, hemoglobin level of 11.3 g/dL, platelet count of 14.8×10 4 /μL, serum C-reactive protein concentration of 0.55 mg/dL, serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor level of 787 U/mL and erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 36 mm/hr. The plasma B-type natriuretic peptide level was mildly elevated at 115.3 pg/mL. Syphilis tests were negative and the ACE level was 10.5 U/L. Meanwhile, the serum corrected calcium level was 9.0 mg/dL and the phosphorus level was 3.8 mg/dL. Tests for proteinase 3 anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) and myeloperoxidasespecific ANCA were negative, and a genetic examination for human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing showed positivity for HLA-B39. The patient underwent coronary bypass surgery-saphenous vein grafting of the right coronary artery and left internal thoracic artery to the left circumflex artery. Histology of the aortic wall specimen showed mild mucous degeneration without apparent infiltration of inflammatory cells. The Takayasu arteritis activity was considered to be low based on the findings of FDG-PET, and the lower extremity lesions were treated with topical corticosteroid ointment.
