We present a 14 year old male, who had been suffering from cutaneous skin lesions, for 2 years prior to diagnosis. No other complaints or symptoms, such as fever, weight loss, arthritis, arthralgia, myalgia or hypertension were reported. His past medical history was unremarkable, except for a milk allergy. Family background: Both parents are Jewish, mother's family from Eastern Europe; father's family from Egypt. There were no reported rheumatologic or autoimmune diseases. Physical examination was unremarkable, except for the nodular and tender skin lesions. The primary lesions were maculopapular, which had gradually evolved to tender and locally warm nodular skin lesions, later becoming necrotic. Trunk and extremities were involved (Figures 1, 2 capture lower extremity lesions in different stages of skin involvement), in addition to the patient's face and right eyelid ( , 4, 5, 6 show the natural history of a right eyelid necrotizing lesion). Laboratory workup, including acute phase reactants, complete blood count, liver and kidney function tests and urinalysis, were within normal ranges. Comprehensive infectious work-up was negative. Autoantibodies, including anti-nuclear antibodies, anti double-stranded DNA antibodies, and rheumatoid factor, were negative. Complement factors were normal. pANCA, cANCA, anti-myelperoxidase and anti-proteinase 3 antibodies, anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies and antiphospholipid antibodies were all negative. Immunoglobulin profile was normal. AntiStreptolysin O and anti-DNAse B antibodies were not detected. Hepatitis virus antibodies were negative. A whole blood sample was analyzed for common Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF) mutations. The results were negative. Abdominal ultrasound, including Doppler imaging of the renal arteries, chest x-ray and echocardiogram were all normal. Skin biopsies were taken in another hospital, but the slides were re-examined in our hospital. Skin tissue samples showed widespread panniculitis and necrotizing medium vessel vasculitis, with fibrinoid necrosis, compatible with polyarteritis nodosa. Since there were no indications of systemic involvement, based on the patient's medical history, physical examination and laboratory results, he was diagnosed with cPAN.Treatment with oral prednisone was recommended. Mainly concerned about the side effects of systemic steroidal treatment, the parents refused to any systemic treatment (including other oral agents, such as colchicine), relying on the boy's good appearance and well-being. The patient was thus treated with topical diflucortolone valerate during exacerbations, three times a day, for two to three weeks at a time, until complete remission. Both facial and trunk lesions were treated, without any recurrence of a specific treated lesion reported during follow-up visits. If a lesion was not treated within days of its appearance, it would have become necrotic. No adverse reactions were reported, no extensive skin atrophy was marked, and no cataract was diagnosed upon follow-up. A lesion became infected only once (by Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa), and was successfully treated with oral antibiotics.
