A 69-year-old man was found deceased on the floor of his bedroom in his basement apartment. He was last known to have been alive the previous day when he was seen by his mother and was apparently well with no complaints. At the scene there was blood on his face, torso, and upper extremities as well as on the floor and furniture around his body, with a moderate amount of smearing of the blood. There were no apparent external injuries. His medical history was non-contributory. Specifically, there was no history of anemia, hematemesis, hematochezia, melena, alcoholism, liver disease, varices, or hemophilia. The residence was secure and undisturbed. Postmortem computed tomography (PMCT) and multiplanar reformats demonstrated a large, infrarenal, partially calcified, abdominal aortic aneurysm abutting the distal duodenum and appearing to ''tether'' this portion of duodenum. The soft tissue plane between the aneurysmal aorta and the duodenum was diminished and focally obliterated. The stomach and small bowel were expanded and & Jayantha Herath Jayantha.Herath@ontario.ca contained multiple air-fluid levels. The material filling the gastrointestinal (GI) tract structures was of similar radiographic density to the luminal contents of the aorta and was interpreted as most consistent with blood ( –c). There was no apparent gas within the lumen of the aorta, nor was there gas in the periaortic soft tissue. No other findings on PMCT could account for the GI hemorrhage. There were no other lethal injuries or pathologies identified on PMCT. The impression based on PMCT findings, in combination with the scene and circumstances of the death, was that death was the result of exsanguination/gastrointestinal hemorrhage as the result of primary aortoenteric fistula (AEF), specifically an aortoduodenal fistula. A full medicolegal autopsy was performed. The external examination documented a Caucasian male, appearing the reported age of 69 years. Blood was present on the clothes, face and body, and in the mouth and nose. Internal examination was performed using an en masse (Letulle) evisceration, which revealed an infrarenal, partially calcified atherosclerotic aneurysm of the abdominal aorta (9.0 9 7.0 9 6.5 cm) with focal mural disruption on the anterior aspect of the aorta. Upon opening of the stomach, small bowel, and colon, all were filled with fresh clot (820 mL of clot in stomach, in addition to an unquantified amount filling the small bowel through to the sigmoid colon). Within the mid-distal duodenum, there was a hemorrhagic, full-thickness disruption of the bowel wall. A probe was gently passed without resistance through this disruption in the small bowel wall and emerged within the aneurysmal portion of the abdominal aorta, through the anterior mural disruption . Opening along the length of the probe demonstrated the fistulous tract connecting the small bowel to the aortic aneurysm . The fresh clot in the more distal portions of the small bowel took on a coiled appearance . The remainder of the autopsy findings included macroscopic and microscopic findings of cardiomegaly (570 g) with symmetric hypertrophy and subcritical, triple vessel coronary artery disease,and arteriolonephrosclerosis. The cause of death was exsanguination/gastrointestinal hemorrhage as the result of primary aortoduodenal fistula as a complication of abdominal aortic aneurysm.
