An otherwise healthy 61-year-old man who was 172 cm tall and weighed 84 kg, presented for general anesthesia for catheter-based pulmonary vein isolation for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Endotracheal intubation was planned to facilitate transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), as per routine. Prior to induction of anesthesia, a 20-G catheter was placed in the patient's right radial artery, and 14-G intravenous catheter was placed in his right forearm. General anesthesia was induced with propofol 100 mg, fentanyl 200 µg, and atricurium 30 mg, and the trachea was intubated uneventfully. Cefazolin 2 g was also administered concurrently with the induction agents. Immediately following induction of anesthesia, the patient became profoundly hypotensive (blood pressure 81/45 mm Hg; mean arterial pressure 57 mm Hg) while securing the endotracheal tube decreasing to 50/30 mm Hg (MAP 37 mm Hg) as noted on anesthesia record. Owing to the initial absence of obvious signs of anaphylaxis—bronchospasm and high airway pressures—tachycardia (heart rate 80-90), typical rash (rash restricted to arms and only seen after removal of blanket, end tidal CO 2 low (18 mmHg) and hypotension were the only indicators initially. The patient's hypotension was refractory to escalating doses of metaraminol (1 mg then 5 mg then 10 mg), which was initially administered assuming hypotension was related to propofol induction. Epinephrine 1 mg was given quickly followed by a second dose of 1 mg when metaraminol had failed and a rash was observed on removal of the blanket covering the patient's arms. Initial cardiac rhythm on the monitor was pulseless electrical activity (sinus rhythm) closed chest massage was initiated and help was called for. A good wave form and MAP of 60 to 80 mm Hg was generated with cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). During the resuscitation a 9-French (Fr) introducer was placed in the right internal jugular vein and subsequently a quadlumen central line was placed just distal to the introducer in lieu of ongoing high volume fluid administration. The first arterial blood gas (ABG) obtained shortly after initiation of CPR revealed a pH of 7.12, pCO 2 of 82 mm Hg, pO 2 of 55 mm Hg, and a bicarbonate of 19 mEq/L. A TEE probe was not placed because of ongoing CPR; however, a brief transthoracic examination revealed a severely dilated and hypokinetic left ventricle and a severely impaired and hypokinetic right ventricle. While high quality CPR continued end tidal CO 2 remained more than 20 mm Hg, MAP varied in the 70 to 80 mm Hg range. Over the next 20 minutes, in spite of aggressive advanced life support, adequate spontaneous perfusion was not achieved, and a decision was made to initiate VA ECMO. The ECMO circuit consisted of a polymethylpentene oxygenator (Quadrox PLS, MAQUET Cardiovascular, Hirlingen, Germany) and a centrifugal pump (Rotaflow, MAQUET Cardiovascular). A 29-Fr multiport drainage cannula (HLS, MAQUET Cardiovascular) was placed percutaneously in the patient's right femoral vein and a 19-Fr return cannula (HLS MAQUET Cardiovascular) was placed percutaneously in what was thought to be the patient's left femoral artery. Both cannulae were placed using landmark methods initially due to vascular ultrasound not being readily available. However, initiation of ECMO did not result in an improvement in the patient's hemodynamics or oxygenation. ECMO was discontinued and guide-wires were placed in both cannulae. Fluoroscopic imaging demonstrated the return cannula was in the femoral vein, not artery, it further confirmed the position of the access cannula appropriately in the right atrium. The return cannula was then inserted in the left femoral artery using vascular ultrasound since an ultrasound machine had since arrived. After 60 minutes of advanced life support, involving continuous closed chest compressions, 19 mg epinephrine, 150 mL 8.4% sodium bicarbonate, and 20 L crystalloid fluid, VA ECMO was successfully initiated at a pump speed of 4000 rpm, which achieved a circuit flow of 5.1 L/min. At that time, the post CPR ABG revealed a pH of 7.41, pCO 2 of 72 mm Hg, pO 2 of 66 mm Hg, and a bicarbonate of 26 mEq/L. VA ECMO at this flow rate resulted in a dramatic improvement in the patient's cardiorespiratory state. Repeat ABG after 10 minutes of VA ECMO revealed an increase in pO 2 to 88 mmHg, and a reduction in pCO 2 to 38 mm Hg with an ECMO sweep of 5 L/min. Arterial pH was maintained at 7.48 and bicarbonate at 24 mEq/L. A vascular surgeon was called to surgically place a distal perfusion cannula in the left femoral artery, which occurred during ongoing resuscitation in the catheter laboratory. An initial hemoglobin level was drawn immediately following successful cannulation and 2 units of packed red blood cells were administered for a hemoglobin of 6.4 g/ dL. No significant blood loss was noted and the drop in hemoglobin was thought to be dilutional. A TEE probe was placed concurrently with initiation of VA ECMO revealing a severely dilated and globally hypokinetic left ventricle, the access cannula positioned in the right atria, and a hypokinetic right ventricle. Approximately 30 minutes after initiation of VA ECMO, TEE demonstrated a dramatic improvement in left ventricular function. The patient was transferred to the cardiovascular ICU. Prior to and following arrival in the ICU difficulties were experienced achieving adequate circuit flow. Despite pump speeds of 3500 to 4000 rpm, maximal achievable flows were 3 to 3.5 L/min. Because capillary leaking and redistribution of intravascular volume into the bowel wall and other extra-vascular spaces is progressive, as is ACS in general, initial flows were better than subsequent flows. Attempts to increase pump speed resulted in repeated suction events, necessitating reducing pump speed and administering further fluid boluses. Suction events or access insufficiency results when insufficient blood return from the body to the venous cannula exists to support the ECMO flow goal for a given speed. These events are characterized by shaking or chatter of the venous (access) limb of the circuit and reduction in flow. Volume status was assessed utilizing TEE which not only revealed dramatically improved biventricular function but a well filled heart and progressive aortic valve ejection. A small left-sided pleural effusion was also noted on TEE with no evidence of significant fluid collection in either pleural space on chest radiograph. The patient's' abdomen had become grossly distended, and abdominal palpation resulted in immediate suction events. The absence of hemoglobinuria and echo confirmation of laminar flow at the access cannula, at least when suction events were not present, led us to rule out cannula obstruction or thrombus as a cause. Additionally, as cardiac function improved oxygenation of the patient's upper body became severely impaired, due to the ejection of deoxygenated blood by the left ventricle into the central circulation also known as differential hypoxia. The ventilator in the ICU was set in pressure control mode with a peak pressure of 20 cm H 2 O, peak end expiratory pressure of 10 cm H 2 O, FiO 2 of 100% at a rate of 12 breaths/min, resulting in tidal volumes of approximately 2 mL/kg. This poor compliance was correlated with an admission to ICU chest radiograph showing bilateral ground glass opacifications encompassing the entirety of both lungs. Ventilator settings were aimed at lung protective strategy keeping peak pressure below 30 cm H 2 O and providing increased peak end expiratory pressure. The high FiO 2 was necessary due to increasing difficulty with oxygenation as heart function improved. Arterial blood gas analysis taken from the right radial arterial catheter revealed a SaO 2 that varied between 40% and 75%. Bilateral upper extremity pulse oximetry revealed only intermittent but less than 50% SaO 2 considered unreliable due to initially limited pulsitility and lack of reliability of such low peripheral SaO 2 measurements. Pre-and post-oxygenator SaO 2 were as expected with pre-oxygenator values ranging from 50% to 64% and post-oxygenator values being 100%. The patient was given 50 mg of rocuronium to facilitate relaxation in an effort to improve ventilation and access insufficiency with no improvement. To help reduce left ventricular ejection, the epinephrine infusion was discontinued and an infusion of norepinephrine commenced to support blood pressure (target MAP >60 mm Hg). During the acute phase and because of consideration for laparotomy, anticoagulation was withheld. A discussion was had regarding possible therapeutic options, and a decision was made to request a decompressive laparotomy with vacuum dressing. This was performed at the bedside by a general surgeon. Moderate ascites and severely edematous bowel were identified at laparotomy with no evidence of mesenteric ischemia. Following abdominal decompression, pump speed could be increased to 4000 rpm without causing suction events, and circuit flow increased from 3.5 to 6.0 L/min. Additionally, SaO 2 immediately increased from 71% to 91% and tidal volumes increased modestly to 4 mL/kg at 20 cm H 2 O indicating some improvement in lung compliance. Two hours postlaparotomy, pump speed was 4150 rpm, circuit flow was 6.0 L/min, SaO 2 was 99%, pH 7.44, and lactate was 2.0 mmol/L. Thereafter support with VA ECMO was uneventful, there were no further suction events and no further need for intravenous resuscitation fluid. The patient was cooled to a target core temperature of 33°C to 34°C for 24 hours as monitored by indwelling urinary catheter temperature probe, following which he was slowly passively rewarmed so as to not create hyperthermia, a target temperature of 36°C was targeted. Sedation was maintained with midazolam and fentanyl infusions and 2 subsequent doses of 50mg of rocuronium were administered between laparotomy and normothermia to prevent shivering and to facilitate continued ECMO. During this time the patient had a massive spontaneous diuresis of 4020 mL in 24 hours. Repeat TEE demonstrated normal cardiac function. Anticoagulation was still withheld due to the patients open abdomen and to spite mild thrombosis seen on the access side of the oxygenator, flows were not adversely affected and no evidence of excessive hemolysis was present reflected by normal plasma free hemoglobin levels. After 48 hours, ECMO was discontinued and sedation was stopped. The patient awoke and was neurologically intact. The laparotomy wound was closed uneventfully at 72 hours. After 10 days, the patient was discharged from hospital in good health. Tryptase levels obtained at 2 hours and 4 days postarrest were 44.7 and 4.9 µg/L, respectively. Krishna et al 12 showed that a tryptase level >33.6 µg/L carried a positive predictive value of 86.4% for an IgE-mediated anaphylaxis. Laroche et al 13 further describe a tryptase of 7.35mcg/L indicating an allergic mechanism with a sensitivity and specificity of 92%. Skin testing at 3 months demonstrated cefazolin was the causative agent for the anaphylaxis, which according to current evidence is consistent with the second most common cause of anesthesia related allergic reactions being antibiotics. 12 Laroche et al 13 also showed that aggressive resuscitation in itself does not affect serum tryptase levels. Repeat pulmonary vein isolation with a nontriggering general anesthetic was planned for a later date.
