A 12-year-old boy with a history of type I diabetes mellitus since 3 months of age presented with DKA and severe hypotension. He also had a past medical history of anemia of unknown etiology. On arrival to the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU), his blood pressure was 60/40 mm Hg, heart rate 112/min, temperature 98.7°F, 100% saturation on room air, and a Glasgow coma scale (GCS) of 14, which deteriorated to 9; however, a computerized tomography (CT) scan (head) obtained was normal. He was given a parenteral fluid challenge with a total of 60 mL/kg crystalloids but did not respond and was started on dopamine, which was increased to a dose of 20 µg/kg/min. IV insulin infusion and IV antibiotics were initiated. Arterial blood gas (ABG) showed severe acidosis with base deficit of-14 mmol/L and bicarbonate (, amylase, and lipase were normal. Blood and urine cultures showed no growth. Mycoplasma serology was negative. Echocardiogram revealed normal anatomy, size, and biventricular function, with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 65% and no evidence of pericardial effusion. Abdominal ultrasound was normal other than biliary sludge with gallbladder wall thickening. Hypotension resolved after 3 days of vasopressor and fluid therapy. The severity and duration of his hypotension was not consistent with hypovolemia, and etiologies such as sepsis, acute pancreatitis, obstructive causes, and cardiogenic shock were ruled out. After discharge, he presented to the PICU within a month with a similar episode, which responded to multiple fluid boluses without the need for vasopressors. Repeat workup for cause of hypotension was negative. A literature search to explain severe hypotension in DKA yielded only reports of cases with identifiable etiologies such as sepsis.Severe hypotension and fluid refractory shock are rare in pediatric DKA in the absence of a known etiology. 1 In a retrospective review of medical records (unpublished data) in our institute, we did not find a single patient with hypotension among 52 patients with severe DKA who were admitted to the PICU over the past 7 years. Similar results were found in other studies. 4,5 Surprisingly, the majority of children were in fact hypertensive at the time of admission or during the course of treatment in the PICU. This has been attributed to the markedly elevated plasma concentration of renin, aldosterone, norepinephrine, cortisol, and vasopressin levels in children with DKA on admission, which reached physiological levels after 24 hours of treatment. 6-8 Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) plays an important role in the regulation of the plasma volume and sodium homeostasis, and increased concentrations of ANP are found in fluid overload conditions. 9 Severe volume depletion as seen in DKA results in extremely low plasma levels of ANP because of negative feedback regulation. ANP has an inhibitory effect on vasopressin, renin, and aldosterone secretion. 10,11 It is also known to inhibit the vasoconstrictor action of norepinephrine. 6 Low levels of ANP as seen in DKA thus results in unopposed action of these hormones and catecholamines resulting in hypertension. In addition increase in counterregulatory hormones, such as cortisol, is known to inhibit potent vasodilators, such as prostacyclin (PGI2) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). 12 Hence, it is not surprising that hypotension is such an uncommon finding in pediatric DKA. Our patient was admitted to the PICU twice within 1 month with severe hypotension. The first episode was refractory to fluids and needed vasopressor therapy, and the second episode responded to fluid therapy alone. Laboratory workup and diagnostic imaging ruled out bacterial sepsis, acute adrenal insufficiency, acute pancreatitis, cardiogenic shock, and obstructive shock secondary to pneumothorax or cardiac tamponade. Systemic acidosis is known to cause myocardial dysfunction, but echocardiography revealed a normal ejection fraction in our patient. Moreover, the hypotension persisted despite correction of acidosis. A possibility of anaphylactic shock was also considered, and a trial of intravenous insulin treatment after the resolution of hypotension did not result in any recurrence of hypotension. There was no history of fever before and after the onset of DKA. The patient's blood and urine cultures were negative. Plasma CRP levels were normal and had no other focus of infection. All these argued against any infectious etiology. However, he was treated for presumptive infection with antibiotics. Studies have shown that the inflammatory cytokines are increased in some children with DKA in the absence of infection. 13-15 In addition, it has been suggested that the metabolic insult of DKA and its treatment can result in systemic inflammatory response syndrome in the absence of infection. 16 Moreover, the absence of protective anti-inflammatory actions of insulin resulting from severe insulin deficiency in DKA may also contribute to a proinflammatory state. 17 PGI2 and PGE2 are produced mainly in adipose tissue in response to stimulation by catecholamines such as epinephrine and other pressors. Both PGI2 and PGE2 are potent vasodilators and play an important role in the regulation of vascular tone and blood pressure. Inhibition of PGI2 and PGE2 production enhances vascular responsiveness to vasopressors, whereas stimulation leads to vasodilation and hypotension. Insulin is known to decrease the catecholamine-induced production of these 2 potent vasodilators. Severe insulin deficiency as seen in DKA thus leads to increased production of PGI2 and PGE2, which leads to vasodilation and hypotension. 12,18 Despite the above explanation, it is still unclear why shock is a rare event in pediatric DKA. It has been shown that interindividual variations related to genetic polymorphisms in some of the prostanoid receptors or enzymes that are involved in the synthesis and metabolism of prostaglandins are responsible for the difference in susceptibility and the response in other disease conditions. 19-22 Whether such variations in pediatric DKA patients are responsible for the difference in the clinical presentation as seen in our patient is largely unknown. Metabolic and genetic studies in future are needed to establish and improve this knowledge.
