The decedent, a 58-year-old man, was witnessed becoming suddenly restless, short of breath, and nauseated. Within minutes of the onset of symptoms he was seen gasping. Upon the arrival of emergency services, he was without vital signs and was pronounced dead at the scene. Three weeks prior to his death, diagnosis of a dental infection was made, for which he was treated with amoxicillin (non-adherence was noted by the investigative coroner). This reaction was reported to have occurred within minutes, lasted a couple of days, and was not associated with any significant pain or rash. There was no history of new drug or food exposures, insect bites, or exposures to latex or other allergenic substances. His past medical history included diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and myocardial infarction, and his medications included amoxicillin, metformin, aspirin, amitriptyline, perindopril (ACEI), spironolactone, and chlorthalidone. The decedent's facial features are shown in A pre-autopsy CT scan was obtained (Figs. 2, 3). Significant findings at autopsy included facial swelling, a complete obstruction of the larynx due to angioedema, uvular edema, tracheal narrowing (secondary to the ossification of tracheal cartilage associated with aging) , and hypertensive cardiovascular disease. The dentition was carious, but no evidence of a current dental infection was found. Microscopic examination of the laryngeal mucosa showed edema with a background of a mixed inflammation consisting of lymphocytes and neutrophils with a small number of eosinophils. Toxicology showed the presence of prescribed medications and evidence of recent alcohol consumption. The combined effects of the CNS (central nervous system) depressing agents, including ethanol, doxylamine, amitriptyline, codeine, dextromethorphan, and diphenhydramine, could cause drowsiness and in some instances death. However, the history of sudden facial swelling and acute respiratory difficulties quickly followed by unresponsiveness was suggestive of death due to laryngeal angioedema and not drug toxicity, such as is seen with CNS depressive agents. Biochemistry showed increased levels of tryptase (72 ng/ mL) and a total (non-specific) IgE. An increased level of tryptase, a marker of mast cell degranulation, has been used as a marker of anaphylactic deaths. However, there is a substantial overlap in tryptase levels seen in anaphylactic and non-anaphylactic deaths, and in addition, tryptase levels can be low in patients experiencing anaphylaxis . Therefore, the diagnostic value of the tryptase level in this case was limited. In addition, there appears to be no significant correlation between total IgE and the severity of clinical reactions. The cause of death was a complete laryngeal obstruction due to angioedema. Photographs of the decedent at autopsy, at the time of dental infection diagnosis, and in normal state suggest that the fatal reaction was a second episode of angioedema .Discussion documented or reported sensitivity that typically occurs within minutes to a few hours of ingestion. On the other hand, the latency between the initiation of ACEI therapy and the onset of angioedema varies greatly, from a few hours to several years, with about 60 % of reactions occurring within the first week of treatment . This adverse event is frequently missed because of varying latency between drug initiation and the onset of the first reaction, including an irregular clinical course . The decedent was reported to have been taking perindopril for a number of years. ACEI-induced angioedema occurs in up to 1 % of patients taking ACEI, irrespective of the dose . Even though the incidence is not very high, ACEI-induced angioedema is the most frequent cause of recurrent drug-induced angioedema and the second most common reason for hospitalization due to ''allergies,'' after acute asthma . The severity of ACEI-induced angioedema varies from mild reactions to fatalities due to laryngeal angioedema . The underlying mechanism of ACEI-induced angioedema is linked to the decreased degradation of bradykinin (class effect of ACEI), which leads to dilation and increased permeability of blood vessels, activation of nociceptors, and inflammatory cascades. The inconsistency in manifestations of ACEI-induced angioedema and the small percentage of patients that are affected suggest that other factors play a role in its development. Risk factors that have been cited include underlying hereditary angioedema, being of African American origin, being older than 65 years, being female, being a smoker, upper airway surgery or trauma, obesity, sleep apnea, and immunosuppression in transplant patients . It has been suggested that the susceptibility to ACEI-induced angioedema may be determined by a decreased activity of the bradykinin-degrading enzyme, aminopeptidase-P (APP) . A genetic basis for low APP activity has also been demonstrated and linked to ACEI-induced angioedema. Considered altogether, ACEI-induced angioedema is a complex trait influenced by both environment and genotype. The exact mutations/polymorphisms associated with ACEI-induced angioedema are currently unknown, largely due to the rarity of this adverse reaction. Since angioedema in this case may have been caused by ACEI (perindopril), this adverse drugonly address the cause and manner of death, but also give clues as to the etiology and potentially genetically determined predispositions. It is essential for forensic practitioners to keep up to date on potentially lethal adverse drug effects and their mechanisms, along with recent molecular findings in pharmacogenetics.
