A 28-year-old female Turkish patient with CF admitted with malaise, persistent fever, arthralgias and weight loss during the last 3 weeks. The patient was diagnosed with CF at the age of 17 years based on a sweat chloride test and clinical manifestations. The patient was on treatment with pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy, multivitamins, inhaled rhDNase and tobramicin associated with chest physical therapy and postural drainage. The patient was chronically infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. Physical examination revealed cachexia (160 cm height, 38 kg weight), fever (38.5u uC), coarse breath sounds with bilaterally scattered rales and clubbing. Routine laboratory analysis revealed hypochromic microcytic anaemia (Hb: 7.7 g/dl), neurophilic leukocytosis (23.300/ml), thrombocytosis (1 103 000/ml), elevated C-reactive protein level (CRP: 20 mg/l) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR: 120 mm/hour). There were bilateral predominantly upper-lobe bronchiectasis with no obvious infiltration or consolidation on chest radiography. On spirometry, there was a significant airflow obstruction (FEV 1 : 40%). The patient was ordered intravenous amikacin and imipenem with the diagnosis of acute exacerbation of CF. After 2 weeks the patient was still suffering from fever and arthralgias. The patient was investigated for the aetiology of persistent fever during the antibiotic therapy of amikacin and imipenem. The sputum smears and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens were negative for acidphy, bone marrow aspirations and genetic analysis for myeloproliferative disorders were all normal. A mediastinoscopic biopsy was performed with the suspicion of lymphoma. The pathologic examination was consistent with reactive changes. After a diagnostic work-up lasting more than 1 month, a 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography scan with computed tomography (PET/CT) was ordered to identify underlying causes of fever of unknown origin (FUO) including localised infections, malignancies and non-infectious inflammatory diseases. The PET/CT images demonstrated intense FDG uptake in the arcus and descending aorta (SUV max : 2.2), bilateral carotid arteries (SUV max : 2.6) and bronchiectasis areas of lung parenchyma (SUV max : 2.6). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study confirmed the diagnosis of TA by demonstrating vascular wall thickenings and aneurysmal dilatations of right and left carotid arteries, occlusion of bilateral distal segment of subclavian and axillary arteries and vascular wall enhancement of ascending and descending aorta . Beside these laboratory findings, a murmur heard over the carotid artery in the neck in repeated detailed physical examination. Corticosteroid treatment with methyl prednisolone 1 mg/kg was initiated. At the end of first month, the patient was free of fever and arthralgias. The patient gained weight of 4 kg. Laboratory analysis revealed that ESR was 16 mm/hour, CRP 7 mg/l, platelet count 482 000/ml, leucocyte count 25 400/ml and Hb level 11.4 g/dl. The authors performed a control PET/CT after 3 months of therapy. All diseased sites with high FDG uptake values were completely resolved or decreased that was consistent with treatment response ( and C).
