A 46-year-old Chinese male with a history of hypertension presented with sudden syncope and came to his senses after ten minutes without headache. His respiratory rate was 21 breaths per min and the lungs were clear on auscultation. Cardiac examination revealed a grade II/6 diastolic murmur at the parasternal border. The pulse rate was 75 beats per min with normal sinus rhythm. The blood pressure was 109/76 mmHg in the left arm and 112/62 mmHg in the right arm. No remarkable abnormal was found in abdominal examination. Coagulation tests were normal. Arterial gas analysis on 3 L/min oxygen inspiration was pH 7.39, PaCO 2 39.8 mmHg, PaO 2 62.5 mmHg, SaO 2 91.1%. A chest x-ray revealed widening of the mediastinum, a cardiothoracic ratio of 60%, and normal lung fields. Echocardiography revealed ascending aortic dissection and moderate aortic regurgitation with small to moderate pericardial effusion. Computed tomography scanning revealed ascending aortic to aortic arch dissecting aneurysm, in which the proximal part of right brachiocephalic trunk was also influenced. The left and right pulmonary arteries were normally enhanced with contrast medium. The patient underwent emergency operation for the thoracic aortic dissection, including Bentall procedure, interposition * Correspondence: ywj1007@126.com Department of cardiovascular surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, No. 88 Jiefang road, Hangzhou, China graft replacement of aortic arch, stented descending aorta with a shunt from a chamber around the aortic root to the right atrium. The patient was successfully weaned off bypass and transferred to the intensive care unit. The ratio of PaO 2 to FiO 2 after operation was 300. The haemodynamics was stable. However, the ratio of PaO 2 to FiO 2 fell to 150 gradually after operation. Two days after operation, the patient was conscious and cooperative, and his lung compliance and airway resistance were normal. But severe hypoxaemia ensued. In order to find out the cause of hypoxaemia, a chest computer temography was carried out but no evidence of atelectasis or pneumonia was shown. Pulmanary arteriography showed that an entire right lung field was defected without an extrinsic compression, which indicated embolism of the right pulmonary artery . Considering the stable haemodynamics and the danger of haemorrhage, embolectomy and thrombolytic therapy were not applied in the patient. We took the anticoagulant therapy with low molecular weight heparin and warfarin, which sustained INR at 2-3. Pulmanary arteriography was reexamined every 3-4 day. The images indicated that thrombus gradually dissolved . And the patient's hypoxemia was improved. According to the effectiveness of treatment, we made sure that the entire right lung field defect in pulmanary arteriography was due to thromboembolism. Unfortunately, ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) occurred. Therefore, the tracheotomy tube was extubated until one month after operation. He survived for one year after discharging from the hospital without complications related to lung and heart.
