We report the case of a 39-year-old female patient with intra-abdominal leiomyosarcoma extending from the lower border of the right hepatic lobe to the iliac vessels with invasion of the inferior vena cava (IVC). No metastasis was present at the time of initial diagnosis. The patient underwent radical tumor resection and reconstruction of the IVC with a dacron bypass. Computed tomography (CT) one year after initial diagnosis showed multifocal hepatic lesions, metastasis in the lower pole of the right kidney and right ovary. Subsequent atypical hepatectomy, partial nephrectomy, and ovariohysterectomy were performed. Two months after metastasectomy A and B Coronal and axial CT images 2 months after metastasectomy (metal clips—black arrows) showing recurrent multifocal hepatic metastases (white arrows). No evidence of extrahepatic tumor recurrence. C and D Axial and coronal CT images 3 months after SIRT showing multiple, bilateral patchy pulmonary consolidations with surrounding ground glass attenuation with an apico-basal gradient predominantly localized in the right lower lobe. E CT-guided lung biopsy of a solid, spiculated lesion in the right lower lobe. Patient in the supine position showing the tip of a 20-Gauge needle within the suspicious lesion new liver metastases in liver segments II/III, V, VIII ( , B) were detected, without evidence of extrahepatic tumor recurrence. Based on a multidisciplinary tumor board decision, and given the fact that the liver was the major site of disease on restaging, the patient was referred for a SIRT.
Pretreatment transfemoral angiogram of the celiac trunk and superior mesenteric artery showed normal anatomy with no aberrant hepatic supply. After embolization of the gastroduodenal artery in one HydroCoil technique , no shunting or collateral flow to the gastrointestinal tract was evident. Tumor supplying branches of the hepatic artery were hypertrophied, demonstrating a tortuous course. Super-selective catheter placement within the right and left hepatic artery with injection of Technetium-99m-labeled macro-aggregated albumin ( 99m Tc MAA) simulating distribution of 90 Y microspheres was performed. Subsequent planar scintigraphy demonstrated a lung shunt fraction (LSF) of 11.5 %. The dose was calculated according to the body surface area (BSA) method and reduced by 20 % due to increased LSF . Eleven days after the initial work-up, bilobar administration of 90 Y resin microspheres (SIRTex Medical, Inc., Lane Cove, New South Wales, Australia) was initiated with matching position of the catheter tip within the right and left hepatic artery as on previous 99m Tc MAA infusion. Intermittent injection of microsphere and contrast was performed to verify antegrade flow during application. Total activity administered was 1.60 GBq (right liver lobe 1.1 and left lobe 0.5 GBq). The patient was observed for 4 h in the nuclear medicine suite. As no immediate complications or discomfort was observed, she was discharged on the same day with proton pump inhibitors, steroids, antiemetics, and analgetics in addition to her daily medication. Three months post-interventionally multiple patchy solid lung opacities with surrounding ground-glass halo were visualized on CT ( , D). The patient was clinically asymptomatic and in particular revealed no symptoms of respiratory discomfort. To rule out pulmonary metastasis a lung biopsy was performed. Histological work-up revealed minimally consolidated lung parenchyma and 90 Y microspheres localized mainly within the interstitium . Six months later the CT showed complete regression of pulmonary consolidations with no additional medical treatment.
