A 59-year-old man presented for pain and swelling of the left calf. He had been doing well until 3 days earlier when symptoms all of a sudden began. He did not have surgery, an injury to the leg, or a medical illness requiring prolonged bed rest during the previous months. He did report, however, that he had had similar symptoms ;3 years ago in the same leg after a skiing accident. According to a prior medical record, he had been diagnosed with isolated deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in the posterior tibial veins and was treated with a " blood thinner " for several months. Physical examination revealed tenderness and warmth of the calf, and an increase in calf diameter of 3 cm compared with the other leg. Deep palpation of the calf muscles was painful. Recurrent DVT was suspected. What are the next diagnostic steps?
The clinical likelihood of recurrent DVT was considered high. On whole-leg CUS, noncompressibility of the femoral and the popliteal vein was found. Upon the basis of noncompressibility of a previously unaffected vein segment, the diagnosis of recurrent DVT was made. The positive DD supported the presence of a thrombosis, but had no part in deciding on the diagnostic work-up. What are the treatment options for a patient with a recurrent DVT?
Anticoagulant treatment of recurrent DVT How to estimate the bleeding risk? Deciding on the mode and duration of anticoagulation entails balancing the risk of recurrent thromboembolism against the risk of bleeding. It is, therefore, mandatory to evaluate the bleeding risk not only before anticoagulation is installed but also at regular intervals thereafter. Scoring systems to estimate the bleeding risk exist for patients with venous thrombosis, 20-22 but, unfortunately, performs poorly, 23-25 is not validated, and cannot be recommended for use in daily practice. The annual long-term risk of major bleeding during anticoagulation ranges between ,1% and .6.5%, and is dependent upon the presence or absence of various risk factors, including advanced age, previous bleeding, cancer, thrombocytopenia, antiplatelet therapy, recent surgery, previous stroke, or other comorbidities. 26 These bleeding risk percentages may not be valid for patients with a second DVT who already tolerated prior anticoagulation well. Ultimately, the estimation of the bleeding risk relies on the discretion of the treating physician rather than on scientific evidence. Which anticoagulant regimen should be used for acute treatment? Data on the treatment of acute recurrent DVT is scarce. Only a small number of patients with a history of previous VTE were included in the large treatment trials. It thus remains that considerations and treatment options for a recurrent acute DVT will not be different to that of a first event, and immediate and intensive anticoagulation is mandatory. Unfractionated heparin, low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), or fondaparinux followed by a vitamin K antagonist (VKA) were the only treatment options until recently. 27 The field of anticoagulation has lately changed with the appearance of the direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs). Four DOACs (rivaroxaban, apixaban, and edoxaban are direct factor Xa inhibitors; dabigatran is a direct thrombin inhibitor) gained approval in many countries worldwide. DOACs are equally effective as heparin followed by a VKA but confer a lower risk of major and fatal bleeding. 28-30 Dabigatran and edoxaban are started after a lead-in phase with heparin. Rivaroxaban and apixaban are administered as all-oral regimens with a higher dose at the beginning. suggests an algorithm for the treatment of recurrent DVT in routine clinical practice. In the absence of a contraindication, anticoagulation is started as soon as possible. If the patient does not need to be admitted or can be discharged early, an all-oral regimen with a DOAC is more convenient. In patients in whom a DOAC is not given, LMWH at a therapeutic dose followed by a VKA is an alternative. Pregnant women must not be treated with a DOAC but should receive LMWH at a therapeutic dose. In patients with cancer, treatment with a DOAC is seen controversially and guidelines recommend against its use. 31,32 Consequently, cancer patients with a recurrent DVT should receive LMWH at a therapeutic dose. Thrombolysis or thrombectomy can be considered in younger patients with extensive DVT, who have a low bleeding. What is the optimal duration of anticoagulation? The duration of anticoagulation is largely dependent upon the risk of recurrent VTE. In contrast to patients with a first VTE, the recurrence risk is less well studied in patients with a second event. Patients with a thrombosis history usually receive thromboprophylaxis when they are later exposed to transient risk conditions such as surgery, trauma, hospitalization, or pregnancy. Provoked recurrences, ie, events that occur in associationFor personal use only. on April 6, 2017. by guest www.bloodjournal.org From with a transient risk factor are, therefore, seen infrequently. In the Austrian Study of Recurrent Venous Thrombosis, only 10% of VTE recurrences were rated as " provoked. " In the absence of clinical studies, the recurrence risk can only be extrapolated from patients with a first provoked DVT. There is evidence that patients with a first provoked DVT have a lower recurrence risk than patients with a first unprovoked event. Surgical patients have by far the lowest recurrence risk. 33 It is, therefore, justified to treat patients with recurrent DVT associated with a transient risk factor (surgical or nonsurgical) for only a limited period of time (3 to 6 months) because the thrombosis risk in this patient population is outweighed by the risk of bleeding associated with longterm anticoagulation. In patients where the DVT recurred in the presence of a persistent risk factor such as active cancer, autoimmune disease, or inflammatory bowel disease, long-term anticoagulation is reasonable as long as the bleeding risk does not increase . Patients in whom the first VTE was unprovoked (ie, occurred in the absence of a transient risk factor) have a recurrence risk as high as 30% over 5 years after discontinuation of anticoagulation. 34-36 There is circumstantial evidence that a second episode of unprovoked VTE inflicts 1.5 times the risk of recurrent VTE relative to a first episode of unprovoked VTE, resulting in a calculated recurrence risk of almost 50% over 5 years. 26 The Duration of the Anticoagulant Trial Study Group performed the only randomized controlled trial comparing short-term oral anticoagulant therapy with warfarin with long-term anticoagulation. 37 The majority of patients had an unprovoked VTE as the second event. After a mean follow-up of almost 4 years, patients treated for 6 months had a much higher incidence of recurrence than patients treated infinitely (20.7% vs 2.6%). One major bleed occurred in the short-term treatment group, and 2 fatal bleeds and 8 major bleeds in the long-term treatment group. Taken together, the recurrence risk among patients with an unprovoked second DVT has to be considered as very high, although this notion is largely based upon indirect evidence. Nevertheless, it is commonly agreed upon that these patients should receive long-term anticoagulation. The presence of a postthrombotic syndrome would strengthen this decision even more as DVT recurrence in the same leg would further impair venous flow. Before deciding on long-term anticoagulant treatment, the patient's preferences and concerns need to be discussed because this decision may have major life-style implications. Once therapy has begun, patients have to be followed-up at regular intervals to evaluate the quality of anticoagulation and the adherence to treatment, and also to capture the appearance of new risk factors of bleeding, which could necessitate interruption or discontinuation of anticoagulation. Which anticoagulant regimen should be used for long-term treatment? Until recently, VKA were regarded as first choice for longterm treatment of VTE. Lately, several DOACs were investigated also for extended anticoagulation. Approximately two-thirds of patients included in these trials had a first DVT.
provides an overview of 3 trials comparing rivaroxaban, dabigatran, and apixaban with placebo for extended VTE prevention after an initial course of 6 months anticoagulation. 38-40 The intended treatment durations ranged from 6 to 12 months. Apixaban was given at a therapeutic dose (ie, at the same dose that was used for the treatment of acute VTE) and also at a lower dose. Rivaroxaban and dabigatran were given at a therapeutic dose. DOACs conferred substantial risk reductions ranging between 64% and 92% compared with placebo. Fatal bleeding occurred in none of the patients and major or . Suggested treatment protocol for recurrent DVT. a Apixaban 10 mg twice daily for 1 week followed by 5 mg twice daily, reduce dose to 2.5 mg twice daily after 6 months; rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily; LMWH once or twice daily at therapeutic dose for at least 5 days followed by 150 mg dabigatran twice daily or by 60 mg edoxaban once daily; b LMWH once or twice daily at therapeutic dose together with a VKA (target INR, 2.0-3.0) and continue LMWH until a stable INR has been reached, but for a minimum of 5 days; c LMWH at therapeutic dose until 24 hours before induction of labor or caesarean section, and restart LMWH at a reduced dose; d LMWH at therapeutic dose, reduced to about 75% at 4 weeks for at least 6 months or as long as it is safe to do so; e transient risk factors include surgery, trauma, prolonged bed rest, oral contraceptives, hormone replacement therapy, pregnancy/puerperium; and f persistent risk factors include inflammatory bowel disease, antiphospholipid syndrome, nephrotic syndrome, paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, myeloproliferative neoplasma, Behçet syndrome, postthrombotic syndrome, and congenital venous malformation.For personal use only. on April 6, 2017. by guest www.bloodjournal.org From clinical relevant nonmajor bleeding was infrequent. The incidence of bleeding was not higher in patients treated with apixaban than in the placebo group. RE-MEDY compared dabigatran at a therapeutic dose with warfarin in patients who have completed at least 3 months of anticoagulation. 40 The duration of treatment (up to 36 months) was longer than in the other studies. Recurrent VTE was recorded in 1.8% of patients assigned to dabigatran and in 1.3% of warfarin-treated patients for an HR of 1.4 (95% CI, 0.8-2.6). Major bleeding and major or clinically relevant nonmajor bleeding were less frequent among patients treated with dabigatran (0.9% vs 1.8%; HR 0.5, 90% CI, 0.3 to 1.0 and 5.6% vs 10.2%; HR 0.5, 95% CI, 0.4-0.7, respectively). Therefore, in the setting of extended anticoagulation, DOACs effectively prevent recurrent VTE at an acceptable bleeding risk. Some caveats need to be mentioned. The treatment duration of all studies was limited and it is unknown if patients who received long-term anticoagulation benefited to the same extent. The majority of patients included in these trials experienced only one thrombotic event, and it remains to be seen if DOACs are also as effective and safe in patients with multiple events. DOACs are partly cleared from the circulation via the kidneys. Caution should, therefore, be exercised in prescribing DOACs to patients with a creatinine clearance ,30 mL/min in the case of the factor Xa inhibitors or 50 mL/min when dabigatran is chosen. Routine monitoring of kidney function at least once or twice a year is prudent, particularly in older patients. Nevertheless, DOACs are an appealing alternative to VKA, also in the setting of long lasting DVT therapy .
The patient was otherwise healthy and risk factors of bleeding were absent. Because there was no need for admission, an all-oral DOAC regimen was started. The patient consented to long-term anticoagulant therapy after having been informed that due to the fact that his second episode was unprovoked, his risk of recurrent DVT is high and most likely outweighs the risk of bleeding. He was advised to take his medication regularly and that missing doses could result in thrombus progression, embolization, or recurrence. Appointments were arranged for the time point of dose reduction and for regular check-ups thereafter.
A 27-year-old male presented with swelling and pain of the right leg. Physical examination revealed warmth, edema from the distal thigh downward to the ankle, and tenderness on palpation of the calf. He is a musician and is regularly on tour for long periods, often traveling by plane over long distances. The DD was elevated and CUS showed femoral vein thrombosis. He had already been diagnosed with unprovoked proximal DVT of the left leg 1 year earlier and long-term anticoagulation had been recommended. At the time of presentation he was still on VKA treatment.
At presentation the INR was 1.4. The patient had stopped INR monitoring several months before because of interference with his professional commitments. He refused to take VKA any longer. He was once again counseled with regard to his high thrombosis risk, started on an all-oral DOAC regimen, and instructed that missing doses could result in thrombus progression or recurrence.
