A 53-year-old man presented to our rural emergency department with a 2-day history of progressive, intermittent pain in his right upper quadrant that radiated to his back. This pain was sharp, rated 7/10 on a pain scale and had woken the patient from sleep. There was no nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or change in symptoms with eating. His medical history was remarkable only for a cholecystectomy 6 years earlier. He had quit smoking but had a 40-pack-years history. He consumed 26 oz of alcohol per month. His family history was noncontributory. On physical examination, he had an average build and was in no acute distress. Vital signs were stable except for an initial blood pressure reading of 175/103 mm Hg that decreased to 139/88 mm Hg without treatment. His epigastrium and right upper quadrant were tender to palpation, and there were no signs of acute abdominal pulsation. The pain worsened with flexion and extension of the patient's lumbar spine. Distal pulses were equal and present bilaterally. The physical examination was otherwise unremarkable. Blood tests revealed a normal complete blood count, and normal amylase, creatinine and liver enzyme levels. Urinalysis and electrocardiography were noncontributory. The patient's pain settled with a single intramuscular dose of ketorolac. Before discharge, the patient was asked if point-of-care ultrasonography could be performed for training purposes by the principal author (T.M.), who was a first-year family medicine resident at the time and had recently completed training in point-of-care ultrasonography at Memorial University. The scan revealed a 5.1-cm abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) . Sue 1 provides a detailed explanation on how to perform ultrasonography for suspected AAA. Emergent computed tomography with contrast confirmed a 5.1-cm AAA; the provisional report suggested either a contained leak or impending rupture . A vascular surgeon was consulted by telephone, and the patient was airlifted to a tertiary referral centre in St. John's, NL, for further assessment.
