A 74-year-old male patient without medical history was admitted to our department in June 2007 for diffuse bone pain. Low back pain had started a few months before and progressed to severe disability. He had lost more than 10 kg of body weight over the previous three months. Physical examination was normal. Laboratory studies revealed a normal cell blood count and blood chemistry values, including serum calcium, were within normal ranges. Serum electrophoresis revealed a gamma M component, and serum immune electrophoresis demonstrated IgA monoclonal protein. Radiographic examination showed osteolytic punched-out lesions inPleural myelomatous involvement in multiple myeloma (MM) is rare, occurring in less than 1% of cases. We retrospectively studied five cases of patients with MM who developed myelomatous pleural effusions. Three men and 2 women with a mean age of 61 years presented with myelomatous pleural effusion. The pleural fluid electrophoresis revealed a peak of IgG in three cases, of IgA in one case, and of lambda light chains in one case, which were identical to that in the sera of the patients. Detection of typical plasma cells in pleural fluid cytology was contributive, and histologic confirmation by pleural biopsy was positive in four cases. Treatment consisted of chemotherapy. The clinical outcome was initially good, but relapses occurred in all cases early and were complicated by fatal infections. Myelomatous pleural effusion is a rare affection. It is usually a late complication associated with poor prognosis. the skull and pelvis. Bone marrow aspiration revealed 57% of dystrophic plasmocytosis. The diagnosis of multiple myeloma stage III was accepted. Melphalanprednisone chemotherapy was started. Two months after the administration of the final course of chemotherapy, the patient was readmitted for chest pain and dry cough without fever or sputum production. Chest X-ray showed pleural effusion. Chest CT scan revealed a scalloped aspect of the pleura with bilateral effusion, thus leading to the conclusion of myelomatous pleural effusion. Unfortunately, neither thoracocentesis nor pleural biopsy were made. The patient left the hospital against medical advice and was lost to follow-up.
A 62-year-old male patient, with a medical history of non-insulin-dependent diabetes, was hospitalized in 2001 for bone pain with unencrypted emaciation. He reported a three-month history of dull right lower chest pain which was not made worse by coughing or deep inspiration. No hemoptysis or fever was present. Physical examination revealed dullness and decreased breath sound at the base of the right lung. Laboratory data showed an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 30 at the first hour, a normal range of serum calcium, hypogammaglobulinemia on serum electrophoresis, and monoclonal lambda light chains on serum immune electrophoresis. There was no Bence-Jones proteinuria. Radiographic examination showed osteolytic punchedout lesions in the skull and in the second lumbar vertebra, and mild pleural effusion at the base of the right lung. Lumbar CT scan revealed multiple osteolytic lesions on the first, second and third lumbar vertebrae. Bone marrow aspiration revealed 62% dystrophic plasma cell infiltration. The diagnosis of multiple myeloma stage II-a was accepted. Thoracocentesis yielded exudative effusion. Cytology revealed an increase in atypical plasma cells . Immune fixation of proteins in pleural fluid showed monoclonal lambda light chains. Pleural biopsy confirmed the plasmocyte infiltration. The patient was diagnosed with light chain kappa type MM and underwent poly-chemotherapy with vincristine, adriamycin and dexamethasone. Two weeks later, chest X-ray showed an improvement in the pleural effusion. A few months later, the effusion increased again and the disease worsened. The patient died of serious infectious complications.
A 62-year-old woman complained of diffuse bone pain and fatigue of several months. Her complaints had increased slowly. Nothing significant was observed in her personal or family medical history. Examination of her respiratory system, cardiovascular system, central nervous system, and GI system revealed no abnormal findings. There was no lymphadenopathy. Laboratory findings showed an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, gamma M component on serum electrophoresis, monoclonal IgG kappa light chain on serum immune electrophoresis, and a normal range of serum calcium. Conventional radiographs showed osteolytic punchedout lesions in the skull and pelvis. Bone marrow aspiration revealed 60% dystrophic plasmocytosis. The diagnosis of multiple myeloma stage III-a was accepted. A six-month polychemotherapy (melphalan, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone) was carried out with an initial clinical improvement. Five months later, the patient presented with shortness of breath and chest pain. Examination of the respiratory system revealed decreased breath sounds in the lower right hemithorax, with dullness to percussion. The rest of the physical examination was normal. Chest X-ray showed a right pleural effusion. Thoracocentesis yielded exudative effusion with multiple atypical plasmocytes. Immune fixation of proteins in pleural fluid showed monoclonal IgG kappa light chain. Pleural biopsy confirmed the plasmocyte infiltration. The patient was admitted to the intensive unit care and died a few days later of acute respiratory distress.
A 52-year-old man presented to the emergency department with exertional dyspnea, pleuritic chest painand dry cough. He had been on a trial antibiotic treatment, which did not alleviate his complaints. Physical examination was normal apart from decreased breath sounds and percussion dullness over the right lung. The only abnormality in blood cell count analysis was mild leukocytosis. Blood chemistry including calcium level was within normal range except a gamma M component on serum electrophoresis and IgG kappa light chain on immune serum electrophoresis. Standard radiographs showed osteolytic punched-out lesions in the skull, and a right basal pleural effusion. Bone marrow aspiration revealed 52% dystrophic plasmocytosis. Thoracocentesis yielded exudative effusion with multiple atypical plasmocytes. Immune fixation of proteins in pleural fluid showed monoclonal IgG kappa light chain. Pleural biopsy confirmed the plasmocyte infiltration. The patient received three cures of polychemotherapy with vincristine, adriamycin, and dexamethasone, but no response was observed and his disease worsened. He died 4 months later of acute respiratory distress.
A 55-year-old male patient presented to our department complaining of shortness of breath and low back pain. On physical examination, blood pressure was 100/60, heart rate 96/min, respiratory rate 24/min, and temperature 39°C. Examination of the respiratory system revealed decreased breath sounds and percussion dullness over the left lung. Blood chemistry including calcium level was within normal range except a gamma M component on serum electrophoresis and IgG lambda light chain on serum immune electrophoresis. Standard radiographs showed osteolytic punched-out lesions in the skull, and a left basal pleural effusion. Bone marrow aspiration revealed a dystrophic plasmocytosis. Thoracocentesis yielded exudative effusion with atypical plasmocytes. Immune fixation of proteins in pleural fluid showed monoclonal IgG lambda light chains. Pleural biopsy confirmed the plasmocyte infiltration. Melphalan-prednisone chemotherapy was started. The patient improved initially but died a few months later of septicemia.
