A 44-year-old Japanese woman, gravida 3 para 3, who had undergone cesarean section 2 years previously, presented to our emergency room with a 2-day history of intermittent right flank pain. She had no fever, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or cough. She had no history of abdominal trauma, and her past medical history and family history were not significant. She did not have hypertension or cardiovascular disease, and had not taken any anticoagulants. Her bowel and urinary habits were normal, and her menstrual periods were regular. Her last menstrual period had begun 2 days before the onset of right flank pain. On admission, her blood pressure was 115/78 mmHg, pulse 70 beats per minute, body temperature 36°C, and blood oxygen saturation 100%. She was found to be somewhat anemic, with a hemoglobin concentration of 9.8 g/dL and hematocrit of 28.2%. Her white blood cell count was elevated (13,900/mm 3 ), and a urine pregnancy test was negative. On physical examination, her abdomen was diffusely tender without muscle guarding. A pelvic examination revealed a small amount of menstrual discharge and a normal uterus and bilateral adnexae. Abdominal ultrasonography demonstrated a large retroperitoneal hematoma surrounding her right kidney . Emergent abdominal and pelvic computed tomography (CT) was performed. Contrast-enhanced dynamic CT revealed a large retroperitoneal hematoma surrounding her right kidney with an enhancing round structure in the center of the hematoma in the arterial phase . Although extravasation in the venous phase was not clear, findings on threedimensional CT angiography were suggestive of a retroperitoneal hematoma due to rupture of an aneurysm of her right ovarian artery , and no other responsible lesion was seen. A transfemoral angiography was performed for arterial embolization under a clinical diagnosis of bleeding from a right ovarian artery aneurysm. A selective angiogram of her right ovarian artery revealed a tortuous aneurysm near its origin from the aorta without obvious active extravasation . A 2.1-Fr microcatheter (Tangent™; Boston Scientific, USA) was advanced into the orifice of the aneurysm, and 1mL of 16.7% N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate (NBCA) diluted in iodized oil (Lipiodol®; Guerbet Japan, Tokyo, Japan) was manually injected beyond the distal site of the aneurysm. A postembolization angiogram showed complete occlusion of the vessel . No other aneurysm was found on three-dimensional CT and angiography. One day after TAE, CT was performed, which showed that the hematoma had decreased in size, and there was no sign of extravasation. In addition, her hemoglobin and hematocrit were found to have dropped to 7.9 g/dL and 24.1%, respectively. She was administered iron for 4 days, with a subsequent increase in hemoglobin and
