The first patient was a 60-year-old man who had previously undergone bilateral axillofemoral grafting  for an infected aortobifemoral graft [right side polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), left side Dacron] presented with an acutely ischemic left lower extremity. Computed tomographic angiography revealed an axially patent left-sided graft, but the lumen was highly irregular and narrowed from what was believed to be thrombus of an indeterminate age. The superficial femoral artery (SFA) and popliteal artery were patent. There was a suggestion that the trifurcation vessels were partially occluded. Following anticoagulation, the patient was taken immediately to the operating room for open and endovascular treatment. A small open exposure was made just above the iliac crest due to scarring in the groin from prior graft thrombectomies. After a graftotomy was made, the graft was treated with standard Fogarty catheters as well as adherent clot and graft thrombectomy catheters under fluoroscopic guidance. Control angiograms revealed axial patency of the graft, SFA, and popliteal artery with reestablishment of a normal appearing graft lumen. A diagnostic catheter was then passed distally through an 8-F sheath that was placed through the graftotomy. Angiography  revealed the proximal posterior tibial artery (PTA) to be narrowed, possibly from thrombus, and the peroneal artery (PA) and the anterior tibial artery (ATA) to be occluded 1 cm from its origin. A standard Fogarty catheter  was passed into the PTA and PA without effect. Then, under fluoroscopic guidance, a 0.035-inch hydrophilic guidewire was passed into all 3 trifurcation vessels followed by a hydrophilic catheter. Suction thrombectomy  was unsuccessful in achieving luminal patency of any vessel. Following that, a total of 4-mg of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) was administered over 20 minutes via the hydrophilic catheter into each of the tibial vessels, again without effect. A 6-F guiding catheter was then introduced and manipulated to the level of the popliteal artery over a 0.035-inch hydrophilic guidewire. Next, a 0.027-inch internal diameter microcatheter (Marksman; eV3/Covidien, Irvine, CA, USA) was manipulated over a 0.014inch microwire (Synchro-2; Stryker, Kalmazoo, MI, USA) into the ATA. The microwire was removed and superselective angiography verified the microcatheter in position distal to the thrombus. Next, the ReVive PV device was introduced into the microcatheter and advanced to the tip . The microcatheter was then retracted to expose the ReVive PV basket. The embolic material was removed by retracting the microcatheter and ReVive PV device into the guiding catheter, which was aspirated as the ReVive PV device was removed. This thrombectomy pass yielded a large piece of thrombus , and control angiography  demonstrated wide patency of the ATA. Additional passes were made into the PA  and PTA, eachyielding complete reperfusion after a single pass . The patient regained distal pulses in the foot. He ultimately underwent conversion to a right axillobifemoral bypass by his original surgeon to exclude the Dacron graft as this was thought to be the etiology of the thrombotic events since he had never experienced any thrombosis of the right-sided PTFE graft. In the second case, an 82-year-old woman who previously underwent SFA stenting for tissue loss involving a single toe developed recurrent tissue loss and presented for angioplasty of the ATA . After a diagnostic ^ In the first patient, (A) angiography demonstrates 3-vessel runoff to the lower extremity. (B) Following thrombectomy of the left axillofemoral bypass graft, a shower of distal embolic material resulted in complete occlusion of the peroneal and anterior tibial arteries and partial occlusion of the proximal posterior tibial artery (arrows). (C) Fogarty balloon catheter embolectomy (arrow) was attempted, (D) as was aspiration thrombectomy (arrow). Both of these maneuvers and thrombolysis were completely unsuccessful in restoring flow. Next, the ReVive PV device was used. The anterior tibial occlusion was crossed with a microcatheter and microwire. Superselective angiography was performed. (E) The ReVive PV device was then introduced into the microcatheter (arrow). The ReVive PV device was then deployed by retracting the microcatheter proximally. The ReVive PV device and microcatheter were then removed with aspiration of the guide catheter, (F) yielding thrombus material.angiogram was performed from a contralateral approach, a long introducer sheath was placed, and the patient was immediately anticoagulated. The first image obtained following sheath placement and prior to crossing the lesions revealed a new, abrupt occlusion of the tibioperoneal trunk (TPT) not seen moments earlier . Attempts at tPA lysis through the proximal sheath were unsuccessful in clearing what was thought to be a thromboembolic occlusion. A single thrombectomy pass with the ReVive PV device resulted in complete restoration back to the original angiographic appearance of the vessel ( –E). The ATA, TPT, and PA were subsequently dilated, resulting in wide patency of both the ATA and PA with good runoff to the foot. The wound toe amputation site ultimately healed. The third patient was a 63-year-old woman with recurrent tissue loss involving her left first toe amputation stump had undergone two prior interventions (angioplasty and stenting of the SFA and TPT) and now presented with recurrent, symptomatic, high-grade SFA instent restenosis. She had single-vessel runoff via the PA. Repeat angioplasty and stenting with drug-eluting Zilver PTX stents (Cook, Bloomington, IN, USA) was performed within the restenotic area of the old SFA stents with excellent results. Completion angiograms, however, revealed occlusion of the most distal portion of the PA just proximal to its bifurcation near the ankle . Through the existing 5-F sheath, a 5-F guiding catheter was manipulated to the level of the PA. Two passes were made with the ReVive PV device; each yielded extracted thrombus material ( ,C). Passes were made not only into the most distal PA but also into the medial branch of the PA. Following revascularization of the PA and restoration of distal flow ( ,E), an overnight infusion of intra-arterial tPA was initiated because the completion angiograms of the foot suggested slightly sluggish slow within the intrinsic pedal vessels. Follow-up angiography the following morning demonstrated complete revascularization of the PA and excellent runoff into the foot. Postoperatively, the patient experienced complete wound healing of the amputation stump. The final patient was a 69-year-old hypertensive woman with diabetes presented with a non-healing ulcer right foot. Her past history included a previous intervention for critical ischemia of the left lower extremity 1 year ago. Following elective angioplasty of the TPT, control angiography  demonstrated no flow below the mid TPT, with an abrupt angiographic appearance consistent with intraprocedural embolization. The occlusion was crossed with a microcatheter; the REVIVE PV device was deployed below the TPT, within the proximal PTA. A single pass was made with the device, which was retracted into a proximal 6-F guiding catheter under aspiration. Control angiography  following thrombectomy demonstrated complete flow restoration to the tibioperoneal system.
