A 61-year-old Japanese woman with no medical history of kidney disease was referred to our department with severe renal dysfunction. The patient had developed high blood pressure (219/119 mmHg), severe bilateral leg edema,a 5 kg body weight gain, and oliguria over the past few weeks prior to admission. During the exacerbation period, no nephrotoxic drugs were prescribed for this patient. Notable laboratory findings on admission were as follows. The serum creatinine and β2-microglobulin (β2-MG) levels were greatly increased at 15.5 mg/dL and 30.8 mg/L, respectively. The serum uric acid level was elevated at 10.2 mg/dL, and the urine β2-MG and N-acetyl-βglucosaminidase (NAG) levels were elevated at 27,392 μg/L and 9.2 U/L, respectively ( . Urine and serum immunoelectrophoresis detected an anti-λ monoclonal bands , and serum immunoglobulins were suppressed (Table). Abdominal ultrasonography revealed that the kidneys were within the normal size range, suggesting that the patient's kidney failure was not chronic.the twice a week hemodialysis period, around the 12th monthly BD cycle, in which the predialysis serum creatinine level was approximately 5 mg/dL , the mean interdialytic weight gain was 2.7±0.18 kg (n=6), suggesting that the patient's renal recovery was not adequate to be independent of renal replacement therapy at that time. We further continued the monthly BD therapy, and the timing of hemodialysis was decreased to once a week . The patient's predialysis serum creatinine level decreased to 3.7 mg/dL; we therefore discontinued the hemodialysis and monthly BD therapy. In total, she received eight cycles of induction BD therapy followed by 21 months of monthly BD therapy without any serious clinical adverse effects. Almost 1.5 years after the discontinuation of hemodialysis and monthly BD therapy, the patient's serum creatinine level has remained stable at around 2.7 mg/dL , the urine β2-MG level decreased to 17,422 μg/L  and the MM activity is currently maintained with a stringent complete response. Additionally, the patient has been withdrawn from regular erythropoiesis-stimulating agent treatment. The patient's hemoglobin level has also been maintained at over 12 g/dL with a sufficient reticulocyte count, without erythropoiesis-stimulating agent therapy, indicating that the patient's renal interstitial fibrosis was also ameliorated during the nearly two years of monthly BD therapy.
