A seven-year-old Croatian boy with hemophilia B with high-titer inhibitors to coagulation FIX was admitted at our institution with severe hematuria. The parents denied trauma, any medication or infection. He was previously treated with rFVIIa, mostly for bleeding affecting limb joints. Clinical, diagnostic and medication followup is shown in . Painless hematuria was treated during the first three days with only symptomatic therapy consisting of intravenous hyperhidration and bed rest. On the fourth and fifth day, a fall in hemoglobin level was noticed and single daily dose of 285 μg/kg rFVIIa was administered intravenously in a 10–20 minute interval on both consecutive days. Despite the therapy, a life-threatening condition developed on the sixth day with rapid fall of red blood cells count (RBC) accompanied with massive hematuria. The total rFVIIa dose wassubsequently increased by administration every three hours, four times in total with each amount of 105 μg/kg. The treatment successfully stabilized RBC count and reduced hematuria. As hematuria, although reduced, continued, for the following two days the child received additional rFVIIa (once daily 285 μg/kg). On the fourth day of rFVIIa therapy the patient first time complained of left lumbar colic pain, and visible blood clots in urine appeared. The rFVIIa therapy was discontinued. Only hyperhydration and occasional spasmolytic therapy were continued. From the eleventh day, hematuria was only microscopic. In the course of the disease several ultrasound (US) examinations were performed. Initially, normal US showed, coincidently with renal colics, enlarged left kidney with hyperechogenic inhomogenous parenchyma with partial loss of corticomedulary differentiation and dilated pelvicaliceal system with hyperechogenic inhomogenous content compatible with clots. Only a vascular bed over the left kidney without visualization of the parenchyma with practically afunctional renographic curve was found on 99m Tc-DTPA (Diethylene Triamine Pentacaetic Acid) renal scintigraphy . In the first minutes of 99m Tc-MAG3 (Mercaptoacetyltriglycine) scintigraphy, the left kidney was very pale becoming increasingly better visualized later . Renographic curve showed obstruction over the third phase of the renogram. MSCT (multi-slice computer tomography) renal angiography revealed severe left kidney damage with 3 independent unobstructed arteries; two of them starting regularly, the third beginning caudally at the approximate position of the lower pole of the left kidney. The same kidney had 2 veins who communicated with each other, the first had circumaortal course with vascular convolutes and the second (accessory) showed retroaortal course supplying the lower pole of the kidney . Nine months later renal scintigraphy was repeated. The finding was normal.
