The patient was a 49-year-old woman presenting to the emergency department of our institution with severe chest pain; the patient was diagnosed with acute aortic dissection (Standford type A) and referred to the Department of Cardiovascular Surgery. Twenty-four hours after the referral, the patient underwent emergent total aortic arch replacement and distal repair with the stented elephant trunk procedure. After the procedure, the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit for the further management of mechanical ventilation. To prevent postoperative bleeding, the arterial blood pressure was maintained at 90/60 mmHg. Seventy-two hours after the surgery, the patient was extubated, and the patient discharged was discharged 12 days later. Six months after the operation, the patient was admitted for the management of recurrent episodes of laryngeal stridor and dyspnea, which had necessitated multiple hospital admissions after the surgery. Arterial blood gas analysis on admission showed that the patient had mild hypoxemia (PaO2: 56 mmHg). A computed tomography scan was performed, which revealed that the patient had tracheal narrowing (diameter of the 3.5 mm over a length of 1 cm near the region of the thyroid isthmus . The patient then underwent tracheal cryotherapy. Five days after the procedure, no signs of upper airway obstruction were evident, and the patient was discharged. A 62-year-old man was admitted to the emergency department with severe dyspnea since 2 h, along with cough and expectoration and generalized paresthesia. On admission, the patient was in extremis and had tachypnea (respiratory rate, >35 cycles/min). Arterial blood gas analysis showed that the patient had severe hypercarbia (pHa, 7.23; PaCO2, 76 mmHg) and hypoxemia (PaO2, 16 mmHg). History taking revealed that the patient had undergone aortic dissecting aneurysmectomy 2 months before admission, after which the patient had been on ventilation support for 6 days. Therefore, the patient was immediately transferred to the intensive care unit of the Department of Cardiovascular Surgery. Shortly after the transfer, the patient was rendered unconscious and developed apnea. Immediately, endotracheal intubation was performed. Laryngoscopy was performed, and the glottis was visualized to be normal; despite this, the passage of a tracheal tube (internal diameter, 7.5 mm) was not possible deeper than 2 cm beyond the vocal cords because of firm resistance. Similarly, it was difficult to pass even thinner tracheal tubes (internal diameters, 5.0–7.0 mm) or a flexible gum elastic bougie beyond the obstruction. Therefore, ventilator support was established with a bag and mask and laryngeal mask. When the patient regained consciousness, he was writhing and required sedation. Surgical consultation was immediately sought, and tracheostomy was considered. Tracheal stenosis was strongly suspected; however, the location of the stenosis was unknown although it was believed to be below the level of surgical tracheostomy. A pediatric tracheal tube (internal diameter, 4.5 mm) was then advanced through the trachea until resistance was encountered again. Therefore, the location of the resistance was believed to be above the tracheostomy, and surgical correction of the stenosis was promptly encountered. Once emergency tracheotomy was performed, ventilation could be established without the need for excessive high airway pressure, and the wheezing sound on auscultation of the chest was no longer present. A computed tomography scan image showed that the trachea had narrowed to a diameter of 4 mm above the site of tracheostomy . Subsequently, the patient underwent tracheal cryotherapy and was discharged from the hospital 15 days later.
