The following vignette illustrates the numerous challenges in optimizing arteriovenous graft (AVG) patency in hemodialysis patients. A 28-year-old woman initiated peritoneal dialysis when she developed ESRD because of focal glomerular sclerosis. She was hospitalized with an intracerebral bleed caused by a ruptured aneurysm 1.5 years later. A ventricular-peritoneal shunt was placed to treat hydrocephalus, and she was anticoagulated with warfarin to keep the shunt patent. Because of residual left-sided weakness and inadequate family support, she was no longer able to perform peritoneal dialysis. A tunneled central vein catheter (CVC) was placed in the right internal jugular vein, and she was switched to maintenance hemodialysis. A left forearm arteriovenous fistula (AVF) clotted 2 weeks after its creation. A subsequent looped left upper-arm AVG was successfully cannulated 5 weeks after its creation. It clotted four times during the ensuing 6 months and was treated each time by an interventional radiologist or nephrologist, who performed percutaneous thrombectomy, in conjunction with angioplasty of a venous anastomotic stenosis. The patient resumed hemodialysis with an internal jugular CVC when the AVG failed. A right radiocephalic AVF required surgical revision to promote maturation and was cannulated successfully 7 months after its creation. When it failed 3.5 months later, a new CVC was placed. A subsequent right upper-arm graft failed after 6 months because of irreversible thrombosis, despite undergoing two angioplasties and two thrombectomies. A new CVC was placed in the right femoral vein because an ultrasound had then revealed bilateral thrombosis of the central veins in her chest. Having exhausted vascular access options in both upper extremities during a 5-year period, she then had an immediate-use AVG (Gore) placed in her left thigh. This AVG required five thrombectomies, two angioplasties, and one surgical revision to maintain its patency for dialysis during the next 3 years. Therefore, over an 8.2-year period of hemodialysis, this patient required five new vascular access surgeries, 12 thrombectomies, four angioplasties, and two surgical revisions. She also underwent 15 CVC placements, exchanges, or removals and was treated for three episodes of catheter-related bacteremia. In summary, she averaged 4.4 vascular access procedures annually and was catheter-dependent for 1.8 years, or 22% of her time on hemodialysis. Unfortunately, she was disqualified for kidney transplant because of morbid obesity.
