Case 1. A 75 year-old man presented to the emergency room (ER) on 05.29.2015 with an abdominal pain of medium intensity in the epigastric region with a relatively sudden onset 72h prior to admission, vomiting, and four watery stools. The patient has a history of essential hypertension treated with triple therapy, hypertensive and ischemic heart disease, moderate degenerative mitral insufficiency, tricupsid insufficiency, mild pulmonary hypertension, mild degenerative aortic stenosis, major right bundle branch block, permanent atrial fibrillation with oral anticoaugulant treatment, congestive heart failure class II according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) and diabetes mellitus type 2 under treatment with oral antidiabetic drugs. On the clinical examination the patient was hard to cooperate with, had a normal orientation in time and space, but was restless and agitated. He presented cold teguments, polypnea, and an abdomen increased in volume, with signs of cyanosis on its sides, without hydroaeric sounds. Laboratory results showed a severe metabolic acidosis, leukocytosis, increased levels of urea and uric acid and efficiently anticoagulated . The EKG showed atrial fibrillation with a medium ventricular frequency, a completeright bundle branch block with appropriate T wave discordance . The diagnosis of acute surgical abdomen has been stated, and the decision of an emergency intervention has been made. During preoperativ preparations, a big quantity of gastric fluid has been evacuated that initially had a bilious appearance, which later was found to have a dark brown color. An exploratory laparoscopy has been performed. On a closer examination, the intestines appeared to have an abnormal colour. Conversion was executed. During the exploration of the abdominal cavity entero-enteral and entero-pariatel adherences have been observed together with the almost complete enteromesenteric infarction, from the Treitz angle until 30cm distal from Bauhin´s ileocecal valve. The peristaltism of the jejunum and ileum was absent. No pulse was palpable over the superior mesenteric artery (SMA). The last 30 cm of the ileum has also presented signs of incipient ischemia. The case has been considered to have no potential surgical therapy. After the intervention, the patient presented severe hemodynamic and respiratory instability that required the administration of noradrenalin in resuscitatory doses. He has been intubated, mechanically ventilated and major pain control has been established. 7 hours after his presentation at the ER the patient succumbed. Case 2. A 70 year-old male patient presented on 3.30.2015 to the ER with a colliquative abdominal. The pain was severe, located in the epigastric and right hypochondriac region, nonradiating. The clnical complaints started insidiously approximately 48h before presentation, and suddenly became severe after a meal 3h prior admission, accompanied by an episode of vomiting with food content and three watery stools. The patient had a known history of severe essential hypertension, partially treated with quadruple therapy, hypertensive and ischemic heart disease, moderate degenerative mitral insufficiency, aortic insufficiency, tricuspid insufficiency, moderate pulmonary hypertension, major right bundle branch block, recurrent atrial flutter with various transmission under oral anticoagulant therapy, nonsystematic ventricular extrasystoles and NYHA grade III left ventricular failure. On the clinical examination, the patient appeared pale, sweaty, with a positive Murphy sign. Laboratory findings included leukocytosis with a mild neutrophilia, lightly elevated hepatic enzymes and INR outside of the therapeutic range . An abdominal echography has been performed which showed an enlarged gall bladder (long axis 100cm, transvers axis 36mm) with multiple hyperechogenic regions and a double-contoured wall. A diagnosis of acute lithiasic cholecystitis has been established. After the evaluation of the patient´s cardiovascular and pulmonary comorbodities, the surgical intervention has been postponed for the following day. Conservative treatment with antibiotics (Cefoperazonum + Sulbactam 2 x 1g/1g/day IV), pain medication (Metronidazolum 4 x 0.5g/day IV), correction of the hydroelectrical disturbances, and anticoagulant therapy (Nadroparinum 3800 UI/0.4 ml) has been instituted. On 03.31.2015, at 6am, the patient presented the clinical signs of a right carotid artery stroke. A brain CT has been performed, which was suggestive of a medial cerebral artery thrombosis with an ischemic stroke in evolution. The patient has been trasnferred to the neurology department, with the recommendation to continue the antibiotic therapy and his abdomen to be reevaluated ecographically. At 8 pm the patient complained of pain in the right hipocondriac region. The clinical exmaination showed palpatory sensibility and a soft abdomen that was lightly increased in volume with signs of meteorism. Pain medication together with antispasmodic and antiinflammatory agents have been administered. On 4.1.2015 the patient was evaluated by an internal medicine specialist and a new abdominal echography was performed, concluding that abdominal pathology had a stationary evolution. On 4.2.2015 the patient complained of severe abdominal pain, which was accompanied by distension. After a surgical consult, a thoraco-abdominal Computed tomography angiography (CTA) has been ordered. This showed dilated intestinal loops (Ømax 4,5 cm) with the thickening (max 6mm) and poor Case 3. An 82 year-old woman, with a previous history of essential hypertension treated with triple therapy, ischemic heart disease, inferior myocardial infarction and a large degenerative aortic stenosis, has presented to the ER on 6.12.2015 with a diffuse abdominal pain that started 6h prior admission, vomiting, and three watery stools. The clinical examination revealed: a polypneic patient with increased arterial blood pressure (230/70 mmHg), ventricular frequency 103/min, general palpatory sensibility of the abdomen, discrete hydroaeric sounds.. Laboratory findings included leukocytosis and an elevated LDH . An abdominal CTA has been performed, which showed atherosclerosis of the abdominal aorta and its main branches, several thrombi of the SMA from its origin until 7 cm distal to it, pneumatosis of the intestines and hidroaeric levels. (
A diagnosis of AMI has been established, and a surgical An 80 year-old man, without known history of significant diseases, presented to the ER on 6.1.2015 with epigastric pain of sudden onset 12h prior admission. The clinical examination revealed an abdomen that was sensible during palpation both superficially and profoundly and general muscular contraction. Laboratory results included compensated metabolic acidosis, hyperpotassemia and leukocytosis . The abdominal CTA was suggestive for an AMI caused by the obstruction of the SMA due to a volvulus and ascites in medium quantity . The diagnosis of an acute surgical abdomen has been stated, and the decision of an emergency intervention has been made. During the exploration of the abdominal cavity the volvulation of the last 60cm of the ileon has been observed, with cyanotic intestinal wall and absence of peristaltism. Segmental enteral resection has been performed with latero-lateral anastomosis. The post-operatory evolution was favorable, the patient receiving treatment to maintain his hydroelectrolitic and acidobasic balance, antibiotics, anticoagulant and pain relievers. The following table presents a comparative synthesis of the cases.
