A 37-year-old woman without significant medical history was seen at an outside facility with 7 days of headache and fluctuating right hemiparesis. She had a normal head computed tomography (CT). She was diagnosed with migraine, received analgesics, and was discharged. Her headache and hemiparesis had improved but did not completely resolve. Three days later, she presented to a second facility with the same symptoms of headache and right-sided weakness and more recent onset of nausea and vomiting. She was again treated for migraine but developed worsening hemiparesis and difficulty with secretions requiring intubation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) revealed basilar artery occlusion (BAO) and left vertebral artery dissection. She underwent successful endovascular recanalization of the basilar artery but severe neurological deficits remained.
A 41-year-old was brought to the emergency department where she was poorly responsive but had a nonfocal neurological examination. Urine toxicology showed cocaine and marijuana. Head CT was limited by motion but was otherwise unremarkable. She was initially treated for presumed seizures, but her level of consciousness worsened and she was intubated. She was empirically treated for meningitis/encephalitis. Thirty-six hours after admission when the cerebrospinal fluid was found to be normal and she failed to improve, magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography was performed, which demonstrated BAO with a large pontine infarct. Work-up showed lupus anticoagulant.
A 45-year-old woman with lupus presented with 24 hours of nausea/vomiting, intermittent dizziness, dysarthria, and rightsided hemiparesis. Head CT was unremarkable. On admission, neurological examination showed right facial droop, dysarthria, right-sided hemiparesis, hyperreflexia, and a right extensor plantar reflex. Non-vascular etiologies were pursued initially. One day after presentation, worsening of right-sided weakness and headache prompted vascular imaging showing proximal BAO. Endovascular recanalization was attempted but was unsuccessful.
A 57-year-old man with a history of stent-assisted coiling of a basilar artery aneurysm presented with brief loss of consciousness, transient dysarthria, decreased sensation in his left face, and left upper extremity drift. Head CT showed stent artifact. Intravenous tPA was not given because of his low National Institute of Health stroke scale of 2. He then developed seizure-like activity, deteriorated further neurologically, and required intubation. He was treated for seizures/nonconvulsive status epilepticus and transferred to a tertiary facility. On arrival, he was unresponsive, had absent brain stem reflexes, and extremity movement limited to triple flexion. Repeat head CT demonstrated extensive brain stem hypodensity. Diagnostic angiography demonstrated BAO, but no intervention was attempted because of extensive infarction. It was later learned that he had not taken antiplatelet agents the previous week.
A 55-year-old man presented to his primary care physician with intermittent vertigo and was prescribed meclizine and a muscle relaxer. Two weeks later, he came to the emergency department with severe vertigo, vomiting, dysarthria, diplopia, and inability to ambulate. Reports of vertigo among factory coworkers prompted concern for occupational exposure. CT of the head and lumbar puncture were unremarkable. Worsening confusion was attributed to sedatives. Soon after admission, he suffered cardiac arrest and was resuscitated. His examination remained nonfocal except for poorly reactive pupils. Vessel imaging demonstrated left vertebral artery occlusion with thrombus extending into the basilar artery.
Natalie Organek, MD; Nicholas Milano, MD; Megan Donohue, MD; Sophia Sundararajan, MD, PhD; Daniel Strbian, MD, PhD; Irene L. Katzan, MD, MS
