A right-handed 42-year-old German man presented to our institution with convulsive seizures. There were no other neurological symptoms or signs and no neurological deficits. The initial computed tomography (CT) scan of his brain revealed a hyperdense lesion with , 2 and 3) demonstrated a popcornshaped mass in the subcortical white matter of his right parietal lobe. The lesion had smooth lobulated margins and no dural attachment was apparent. The lesion was hypointense on T1-weighted images and mixed hypoand hyperintense on T2-weighted images. There were local mass effect, peritumoral edema and heterogeneously contrast enhancement. On his T2* gradient echo images the lesion showed focal spots of (dark signal) hypointense areas centrally compatible with calcifications, demonstrated on his CT scans, and a surrounding hypointense rim interpreted as hemosiderin deposition typical of cerebral cavernoma. A right parietal craniotomy was performed under MRI-guided navigational assistance. Grossly, no mass or any other pathologic tissue was observed below the dura or on the cortex. Using a sulcal approach, the mass reached about 2cm into the cortex, showing a good cleavage. The mass was completely calcified (like a stone) and measured about 1.5×1.5cm in diameter. A gross total resection could be achieved. Postoperatively, he had no neurological deficits. A histological examination of the specimen showed (at low magnification (5× objectives)) a tightly packed and parallel laminated mass of fibrous tissue . There were a few irregularly shaped small foci within the lesion, which were partly filled with flimsy tissue. Athigher magnification (10× and 20× objective), many faded whorl structures and psammoma bodies were identified . Furthermore, the lesion contained areas of transition into mature lamellar bone and was partly bordered by brain tissue with piloid gliosis. There was no periodic acidSchiff-positive inclusions, nor hemosiderin deposits. An immunohistochemistry analysis revealed focal positivity for epithelial membrane antigen and Vimentin . Staining the sample with reticulin did not reveal a hemangiopericytomas-like pattern. No other histological sign of atypia or malignancy was observed. The pathological examination was performed by two independent and board-certified pathologists. The final diagnosis was a 'raddled' psammomatous meningioma with extensive metaplastic ossification. The postoperative course was uneventful. He was discharged and returned to everyday life, showing no deficits.
In the literature review, we identified 36 cases of intraparenchymal meningiomas, including our case report. Case reports with insufficient information and meningiomas secondary to underlying meningioangiomatosis were excluded; 29 cases were included in total. There were 18 male (62.1%) and 11 female (37.9%) subjects, with the age ranging between 0.4 and 60 years (mean: 21.2 years). Of the 29 intraparenchymal meningioma cases, 26 were located in the supratentorial region (89.7%) and three were located in the infratentorial region of the brain (10.3%). The frontal location was dominant, being reported in 12 cases (41.4%). The most frequently reported clinical presentation was seizure, being reported in 20 cases (69.0%). In almost all of the cases, the radiological appearance was a solid mass showing contrast enhancement. Preoperatively, three cases mimicked a glioma, one case mimicked metastasis und one case mimicked a cavernoma. Total surgical resection was the standard treatment approach and was achieved in all the cases, except in three cases involving the brainstem, in which only a subtotal resection was performed. Radiotherapy following the surgery was done in four cases und one subject additionally underwent adjuvant chemotherapy. Regarding the histopathology, the fibrous type proved to be dominant, being reported in 11 cases (37.9%). The majority of the patients had no postoperative deficits. The location, clinical presentation, radiological finding, and outcomes are summarized in .
