A 12-year-old male patient noticed bloody urine. Therefore, he was referred to a urology department. Since no infectious agent could be detected, cystoscopy was performed where a severe cystitis was detected. Histology of a bladder wall biopsy showed a granulomatous inflammation and schistosomiasis was suspected. Because of the suspected tropical origin of the disease the adolescent was referred to our Tropical Medicine Unit. Detailed history was again taken which confirmed that he had never travelled outside Europe during his entire lifetime. The travels which had headed most south were to Spain, where no exposure to freshwater had taken place and Southern France including South Eastern Corsica, where the patient had spent his last summer holidays 5 months earlier together with his family and taken frequent bathes in various rivers. At presentation in our unit, the patient had a normal leukocyte count with a relative blood eosinophilia of 10.6 % (normal 1–5 %) and an absolute eosinophilia of 700 eosinophiles/μl (n 100–400/μl). All other hematology and biochemistry results including IgE were normal. Urin dipstick revealed erythrocyturia (250 erythrocytes/μl) and leukocyturia (25/μl) with a normal pH (5) and negative nitrite. Microfiltration of urine collected from 11.00 am until 1.00 pm of the following day revealed viable ova of Schistosoma haematobium with a slightly decreased size and alterated shape. In parasitological stool examinations, no ova were detected. Serology revealed antibodies against schistosomal cercariae and adult schistosomes. Ultrasonography showed generalized thickening of the bladder wall in a bladder insufficiently filled because the boy had difficulties to withhold the urine with a large focal echopoor mass attached to the bladder roof . Besides, a moderate splenomegaly with an increased acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) of 2.62 m/s no other sonographic abnormality was detected. The boy was treated with praziquantel at a single standard dose of 40 mg/kg body weight (AWMF 2013). Four days later, the patient suffered acute lower abdominal pain and anuria. Ultrasound revealed an approximately 5-cm mass in the bladder lumen suggesting a large blood clot . Upper urinary tract obstruction was excluded sonographically. Since the boy was afraid of another bladder catheterism, non-invasive measures were attempted by advising the patient to drink high amounts of fluid and to treat the lower abdomen with a hot water bag and massage. Thereby, he succeeded in mobilizing the clot and excreting it with urine . Ultrasound performed on the following day confirmed that the blood clot had been successfully excreted; the bladder lumen was free. To reduce the risk of sequelae, the patient was retreated 3 months later. The further course was uneventful until 11 months later when hematuria recurred after soccer training. This time, parasitological urine examination confirmed schistosome ova which by morphology were no more viable. Hematuria in this circumstance was most likely due to erosion of the bladder mucosa by calcified non-viable ova and did not indicate a persistent infection a finding supported by a normalized eosinophil count, decreasing titers in anti-schistosome-antibodies and normal ultrasound findings of the urinary tract.
