A 6-month-old female Burmese (2.6 kg) was presented 3 days following a midline ovariohysterectomy. The cat developed a raised swelling over the right scapula (approximately 20 mm diameter). This swelling appeared painful on palpation. The attending veterinarian's presumptive diag nosis was a local reaction to either a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory injection (meloxicam) administered subcutaneously at this site or to amoxicillin clavulanate administered further dorsally. No treatment was prescribed and the cat was discharged for monitoring at home.The cat was re-evaluated 7 days later (10 days postovariohysterectomy). The swelling over the right scapula had progressed to a raised, fluid-filled structure (60 mm diameter) covered by hard, dry, leathery skin ( ,b). The lesion appeared non-painful. The cat was reportedly a little subdued but was otherwise normal and eating well. The cat did not have any other cutaneous lesions and the ovariohysterectomy wound had healed uneventfully.
An approximately 12-month-old castrated Burmese was referred for investigation of recurrent ulcerated skin lesions . Lesions were located on the dorsum and trunk. Biopsy of representative skin from the border of the ulcers failed to demonstrate any definitive aetiology. Previous ulcers had healed as shiny 'cigarette burn' eschars with focal alopecia . An in-house consultation with a specialist veterinary dermatologist (dr Ralf Mueller) led to a presumptive diagnosis of CA, although the SEi was measured and found to be within the normal Ri. There was no overt evidence of 'stretchy skin', excessive skin or joint laxity. due to the recurrent nature of the clinical signs the owners surrendered the cat, and it became a pet of one of the authors (SF). The initial presenting complaint did not persist into older age. Within 6–12 months, the cat no longer developed ulcerated skin lesions. instead, there were repetitive episodes of selftrauma to the left lateral cervical skin , with subsequent ulceration. Lesions bled excessively, consistent with a 'vasculopathy' triggering the pruritus. A woollen hiking sock was often taped around the patient's neck to prevent recurrence, permitting the lesions to heal. This measure was well tolerated. As a 4-year-old, the cat developed a small intestinal obstruction subsequent to ingestion of a foreign body. The surgeon who performed the enterotomy commented that the small bowel was unremarkable in appearance, thickness and estimated tensile strength. Post-surgical healing was uneventful. The patient was examined on a number of occasions by specialist surgeons and joints were judged to be of normal laxity.The cat was extremely territorial. Although it was kept deliberately as an indoor cat with supervised outdoor access, occasional accidental excursions resulted in cat fights, with extreme tearing of large portions of integument. The skin was noticeably thin on handling but healed routinely with either suturing (single interrupted sutures of 3-0 synthetic polyamide) or stapling (eventually used for speed, ease and convenience). Routine histopathological examination of skin biopsies obtained at the time of suturing continued to show normal collagen morphology using conventional light microscopy and special stains such as trichrome. Sections of skin collected into glutaraldehyde for TEM were unfortunately never processed. As the cat became middle-aged, the skin appeared excessive and, despite normal body condition, sagged due to the effect of gravity ( ,e). interestingly, the SEi was obviously increased at this time . The cat also 'howled' in a most disturbing fashion. it was uncertain whether it was experiencing pain or if this represented a partial seizure. Attempts to ease these episodes were unsuccessful and they would resolve without treatment, usually within 5–10 mins. The cat demonstrated unambigu ous partial seizure activity after inadvertently receiving a high dose of enrofloxacin (5 mg/kg Po in the evening, then 10 mg/kg Po the following morning). The cat also developed an adverse behavioural response after receiving buspirone; this resulted in manic eating of cat toys, one of which resulted in the aforementioned small intestinal obstruction. Repeated neurological examinations could not be conducted as the cat's 'laissez faire' attitude meant he would flop on his side if hopped. Similarly he would collapse gently onto his head when wheelbarrowed. The cat was without doubt capable of normal ambulation, could negotiate obstacles and managed to fight other cats. The cat died suddenly when 11 years of age after a 48 h period of inappetence and malaise. A necropsy failed to reveal any gross lesions apart from some mucoid material in the frontal sinus and slightly flattened cerebral gyri. The patient led a reasonably long life. Substantial owner commitment was required and it was helpful that veterinary attention was available at subsidised rates.Cases 3–5 detailed case notes for three additional Burmese cats with CA were not easily retrievable; however, representative photographs are presented ( –6) to show the range of lesions evident in these affected cats.was collected from the patient, parents and siblings to provide sources of dNA for wholegenome sequencing. The age at presentation for CA in cats seems to vary from a few months to 2 years, with the history often reporting an apparent 'onset' of hyperextensibility from 3 weeks to 4 months prior to presentation. Affected cats were reported to have 'bleeding' skin wounds and skin that was easily injured. 11–15 The frequency and severity of skin lesions and their tendency to recur in response to minor trauma (especially scratching) seem to be the critical reason for euthanasia in many cases. in case 1, hyperextensibility of the skin was not appreciated until after the skin lesions were identified and the clinical team had considered potential aetiologies. Retrospectively, the owners observed many subtle indicators earlier in the cat's life, such as wrinkling of the forehead and pendulous ventral skin over the belly, that may have facilitated an earlier diagnosis. Case 2 was diagnosed almost instantaneously by a veterinary dermatologist, presumably as the 'illness script' 25 for CA in Burmese cats was highly accessible to an elite clinician. in reported cases of feline CA in Australia, there is an overrepresentation of Burmese cats and one report from Poland described a 'Burman' (sic) cat with Australian lineage (likely to be Burmese). 15 in case 1, the primary author (NH) examined both parents and a normal sibling; all were normal on physical examination, with normal SEi values. There is therefore the potential for further genetic investigations using a genome-wide association study approach using the feline single nucleotide polymorphism array 26 or by wholegenome sequencing this trio of closely related cats. CA cannot be treated, but if it is indeed transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait, then it can be prevented using appropriate molecular screening tests to identify both affected and carrier cats. This approach has recently been implemented for Burmese cats with hypokalaemia. 26 it is also important to document the natural history of this disease in cats that are not euthanased. There was no suggestion of joint laxity in either case 1 or case 2 on general physical examination, but specific quantitative orthopaedic testing was not conducted. Likewise there was no suggestion of a murmur due to mitral valve prolapse or pain referable to involvement of musculoskeletal structures such as tendons, ligaments, cartilage or bone. it was with great concern that we became aware after the death of case 2 that intractable migraines can be a feature of EdS in some human patients. 27 it is not known whether the distress and howling displayed by this cat were actually a manifestation of pain or headache. Brain histopathology and/or magnetic resonance imaging could have potentially addressed this question. it could be argued that chronic administration of pentoxifylline may be useful for patients with CA to prevent the development of vasculopathic lesions, even though there is no evidence-based medicine to support this contention. Anecdotally, pentoxifylline is thought by many experts to be beneficial in the management of dogs with immune-mediated vasculitis. it was trialled in case 2, but not thought to be of any benefit.
