Case 1 An 80-year-old woman who was 141 cm height and weighed 46 kg had been undergoing treatment for ChildPugh class A primary biliary cirrhosis. During the course of treatment, an enlargement in rectal varices was observed with lower gastrointestinal endoscopy. The endoscopic examination revealed blue-colored, dilated, tortuous rectalAn 80-year-old woman. Balloon-occluded antegrade transvenous sclerotherapy was performed to treat enlarged rectal varices by taking a direct puncture approach to the superior rectal vein through the greater sciatic foramen under computed tomographic fluoroscopic guidance. A Pre-sclerotherapy endoscopic image shows blue-colored, dilated, tortuous rectal varices. B Computed tomographic fluoroscopy image. Under computed tomographic fluoroscopic guidance, the superior rectal vein (white arrow head) is punctured with a 20-cmlong 18-gauge needle (white arrow) via the greater sciatic foramen route. C Superior rectal venography image. The rectal varices (asterisk) are supplied by the superior rectal vein (black arrow) and drain to the bilateral middle and inferior rectal veins (black arrow heads). D The superior rectal vein is occluded with a balloon (white curved arrow), and 13 mL of 5 % solution of ethanolamine oleate with iopamidol is infused. Stasis of sclerosing agent in the rectal varices (asterisk) is evident. E One-month post-sclerotherapy endoscopic image shows receded rectal varices Y. Ono et al.: Balloon-Occluded Antegrade Transvenous Sclerotherapy... 1321 varices . Contrast-enhanced CT showed varices in the rectum, as well as a dilated superior rectal vein which supplied the varices, in the periphery of the rectum. It was therefore decided to perform sclerotherapy of the varices with the objective of preventing rupture.
A 63-year-old man who was 141 cm height and weighed 46 kg had been diagnosed with Child-Pugh class A viral cirrhosis and end-stage renal failure and had been undergoing hemodialysis. Due to bleeding from rectal varices, the patient had been receiving conservative treatment with fasting and transfusion. However, intermittent bleeding occurred repeatedly. Since anemia developed with a hemoglobin level that decreased to 6.0 g/dL, it was decided to perform sclerotherapy of the rectal varices. Endoscopic examination revealed nodular dilated rectal varices . Contrast-enhanced CT showed varices in the rectum and a dilated superior rectal vein, which supplied the varices, in the periphery of the rectum.
