A 76-yr-old male with type-2 diabetes and prior DVT five years ago following a transatlantic flight is scheduled for an elective transurethral resection of the prostate under general anesthesia for benign prostatic hypertrophy refractory to medical therapy. When considering risk of perioperative VTE, patientand procedure-specific factors should be assessed. In major orthopedic surgery, which includes hip fracture surgery, total hip arthroplasty, and total knee arthroplasty, the procedure-specific risk outweighs patient factors, and pharmacologic prophylaxis is indicated for at least seven to ten days and, more typically, for 30-35 days (see case 2). In non-orthopedic surgery, patient factors are also considered when assessing risk of VTE. Risk-stratification for VTE seeks to classify patients into risk categories (very low \ 0.5%, low * 1.5%, moderate * 3%, and high * 6%) using a validated model such as the Caprini score 8 shown in . This score includes age, type and duration of surgery, obesity, history of VTE or thrombophilia, presence of a central venous catheter, and malignancy. Risk of bleeding, analyzed in terms of frequency and severity, depends largely on the type of surgery; patients at highest risk include those undergoing plastic surgery with free flap, cardiac surgery, craniotomy, spinal surgery, and traumatic brain and spine surgery. 5 Although practically all hospitalized surgical patients (i.e., not having day surgery) are at sufficient risk by the Caprini score to warrant thromboprophylaxis, the modality may vary. Suggested thromboprophylaxis regimens are summarized inpharmacological prophylaxis in surgical patients should be made after consideration of risk factors for both VTE and bleeding. We suggest that every institution should have a written policy for VTE prophylaxis in surgical patients. In general, patients at a moderate or high risk of VTE with at most a moderate risk of bleeding should receive pharmacologic prophylaxis. When such patients have a high risk of bleeding, they should receive mechanical prophylaxis with IPC. The risk of bleeding should be reassessed daily, and pharmacologic prophylaxis should be instituted when the risk is acceptably low. 4 The patient discussed in the case is at high risk for perioperative VTE (Caprini score = 6) given his age and prior DVT. The surgery is associated with a short-term increased risk of bleeding. Overall, he should receive pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis for at least seven to ten days, initiated when there is adequate hemostasis (e.g., postoperative hematuria begins to resolve), but it should be extended if there is inadequate mobilization given the history of immobility-associated DVT.
An 89-yr-old female with osteoporosis had a fall at her retirement home resulting in a displaced subtrochanteric fracture necessitating hip fracture surgery with spinal anesthesia. The surgery is delayed by 24 hr due to other emergent cases. Although advances in surgical technique coupled with early mobilization have reduced rates of postoperative VTE, patients having major orthopedic surgery remain at high risk for VTE. In the era that preceded widespread use of thromboprophylaxis, the incidences of DVT and PE after hip fracture surgery were estimated at 50% and 10%, respectively. As a result, fatal PE was the most common cause of postoperative death amongst patients undergoing hip fracture surgery or total joint arthroplasty. Lowmolecular-weight heparin is estimated to reduce the risk of DVT by 50% such that fatal PE is now a rare event. 2 The necessity for VTE prophylaxis in these patients cannot be overstated. Numerous studies have investigated the efficacy and safety of UFH and LMWH after major orthopedic surgery. 2,5 Direct-acting oral anticoagulants, such as dabigatran, 9,10 rivaroxaban 11-13 and apixaban 14-16 have been compared with LMWH in patients having total joint arthroplasty. In general, DOACs are at least as effective as or slightly more effective than LMWHs to prevent VTE and have comparable safety in terms of risk of bleeding. Somewhat surprisingly, some guidelines include acetylsalicylic acid among its recommendations as a standalone option for thromboprophylaxis after major orthopedic surgery. 2 A high-quality trial of acetylsalicylic acid for thromboprophylaxis has been published in which patients having mostly hip fracture repair were enrolled. 17 This placebo-controlled study concluded that use of acetylsalicylic acid reduced rates of DVT and PE by 29%, and 43%, respectively. Cross-trial comparison would suggest that acetylsalicylic acid is less effective than LMWH and DOACs. Another high-quality trial investigated the use of acetylsalicylic acid for prophylaxis over an extended duration. 18 After an initial ten days of LMWH, patients were randomly assigned to continue on LMWH or acetylsalicylic acid for an additional 28 days. Acetylsalicylic acid was non-inferior to LMWH for the outcome of symptomatic postoperative VTE, with no significant difference in bleeding outcomes between the groups. Nevertheless, owing to poor recruitment, the trial was stopped early limiting its validity. Thus, additional study is needed before acetylsalicylic acid can be considered as a first-line standalone option for thromboprophylaxis after major orthopedic surgery, and such trials are in progress (EPCAT-II, Clinicaltrials.gov NCT01720108). Patients having orthopedic surgery other than hip fracture repair or joint arthroplasty are at a lower risk of VTE and are studied substantially less frequently. An evidence-based approach to VTE prophylaxis among patients undergoing orthopedic surgery is presented in . In patients having hip fracture repair or joint arthroplasty, the timing to initiate thromboprophylaxis has been the subject of debate. A recent meta-analysis found that starting thromboprophylaxis close to surgery (two hours before or within four hours after surgery) significantly increased bleeding, with a non-significant trend toward less VTE. There was no difference in efficacy or safety when thromboprophylaxis was initiated C 12 hr either before or after surgery. 19 Importantly, a patient awaiting hip fracture surgery is at significant risk for VTE, 2 and surgical delay should prompt preoperative thromboprophylaxis while ensuring that the last dose is given at least 12 hr before surgery. Institutional VTE policies and pre-specified order sets are of particular value for reliably achieving such objectives.Dalteparin 5,000 units sc daily 5,000 units sc bid UFH = unfractionated heparin; BMI = body mass index Guidelines exist for the management of patients on anticoagulant drugs who have indwelling neuraxial catheters. 20,21 Neuraxial hematoma is a rare but serious complication of spinal or epidural procedures. For patients receiving postoperative epidural analgesia, antithrombotic agents should be used cautiously. In patients with indwelling spinal/epidural catheters, needle introduction should be done prior to LMWH administration; the catheter should be removed at the nadir of drug effect (just prior to next scheduled dose), and the subsequent dose should be given at least two hours after catheter removal. There is no consensus for thromboprophylaxis in the management of patients with neuraxial analgesia on DOACs. A reasonable approach consists of avoiding DOACs while a catheter is in place and delaying their administration for at least two hours after catheter removal. The postoperative hypercoagulable state remains for up to three months following major orthopedic surgery, especially after hip replacement. 2 Prophylaxis over an extended duration for up to 35 days (including the rehabilitation/outpatient setting) reduces postoperative VTE after hip fracture repair or joint arthroplasty with no significant impact on bleeding outcomes. 2 In the current case of a patient with a fractured hip who is to wait 24 hr for surgery, LMWH prophylaxis should be initiated immediately. A catheter for neuraxial anesthesia/ analgesia can be inserted safely just prior to the operative intervention. Postoperatively, and assuming adequate hemostasis, the patient should receive LMWH for 35 days.
A 45-yr-old obese (body mass index 48; weight 127 kg) female is scheduled to undergo a Roux-en-Y gastric bypass for weight loss. She has severe restrictive lung disease, obstructive sleep apnea, obesity hypoventilation syndrome, and secondary pulmonary hypertension (right ventricular systolic pressure = 62 mmHg). Obesity is a recognized risk factor for VTE. 22 Patients having bariatric surgery are at moderate to high risk for VTE with a Caprini score C 4. Additionally, the presence of pre-existing pulmonary hypertension may reduce the ability for an individual to withstand the hemodynamic stress of even a small PE. Despite this, there are limited data to inform best practice for VTE prophylaxis as such patients were underrepresented or excluded from trials of LMWH. The data in this area are of low quality and recommendations are based on expert opinion. Pharmacodynamic studies have shown that anti-Xa levels are inversely related to body weight in patients receiving enoxaparin, supporting the premise of increasing prophylaxis doses of LMWH in obese patients undergoing surgery. Nevertheless, since LMWH accumulates almost entirely in the vascular space, which does not correlate linearly with total body weight, there is concern for overdosing LMWH by using dosing adjustments based on total weight. 23 Expert consensus recommends intensifying the dose of LMWH in obese patients undergoing surgery in a fixed manner . 23 A systematic approach is needed to identify at-risk obese patients (BMI [ 30 kgÁm-2 ); this would entail the use of institutional VTE policies and pre-specified order sets that incorporate preoperative BMI measurements. The patient in this case received dalteparin 5,000 IU sc twice daily for the duration of her hospitalization, at ten days in total (or longer until fully ambulatory).Acetysalicylic acid 160 mg po daily 1. tested adequately only in patients with HFS
