A 17-year-old adolescent, who was a track and field athlete, was admitted to our emergency department with progressive exertional dyspnea that had persisted for the previous seven days. His consciousness was clear. His height was 168 cm and his weight was 65 kg. A physical examination revealed a temperature of 37.0, pulse rate of 120/min, respiratory rate of 23/min, and blood pressure of 120/80 mmHg with no external injuries. There was no swelling, edema, cyanosis, or laterality in the face or upper and lower extremities. Although the second heart sound was slightly split, no murmurs or crackles were detected. A blood gas analysis showed hypoxia, with a pH of 7.45, partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO2) of 58 Torr, and partial pressure of carbon dioxide in arterial blood (PaCO2) of 36 Torr on room air. Coagulation tests revealed increased levels of fibrin/fibrinogen degradation products at 35.0 μg/mL (normal: ! 5 μg/mL) and D-dimer at 16.5 μg/mL (normal: ! 1.0 μg/mL). The activities of protein C (95%), protein S (104%), and antithrombin III (105%), and the levels of thrombomodulin (2.2 FU/mL), and homocysteine (14.1 nmol/mL) were normal. There were no collagen disease-related autoantibodies or, antiphospholipid antibodies. A chest X-ray examination showed normal findings , while electrocardiography demonstrated incomplete right bundle branch block . Cardiac ultrasonography revealed dilation of the right atrium and ventricle, and deviation of the septal wall toward the left ventricle, indicating the presence of pulmonary hypertension (estimated systolic pulmonary arterial pressure; 65 mmHg; ). A chest CT scan showed multiple thrombi in the bilateral pulmonary arteries . Although there were no signs of DVT in the lower limbs, DVT was detected in the left subclavian vein . The pulmonary thromboembolism was treated with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA, monteplase, 27,500 IU/kg), and heparin (activated partial thromboplastin time 1.5 to 2 times), followed by warfarin (prothrombin time-international normalized ratio between 2.0 and 3.0). The Patient's dyspnea immediately resolved after tPA and heparin treatment. Two weeks after the administration of anticoagulant therapy, upper limb venography  showed obstruction of the left subclavian vein with a collateral circulation in the cervical region. There were no other abnormalities in the superior vena cava or right subclavian vein. A follow-up CT scan, performed one week after the initial therapy, showed that the bilateral thrombi in the pulmonary arteries had decreased, and that the left costoclavicular space was narrower than the right costoclavicular space, indicating that the left subclavian vein was interrupted . We considered that the patient had left subclavian vein thrombosis and obstruction, caused by PSS. The elements of the chest wall, including the clavicle, showed no abnormalities. Furthermore, the numerous collaterals observed on venography suggested that the venous obstruction was chronic. Therefore, we did not administer surgical or interventional therapy, including intravenous metallic stent insertion or balloon venoplasty. One year after the administration of anticoagulant therapy, a chest CT scan showed that the bilateral thrombi in the pulmonary arterieshad completely resolved; however, the chronic obstruction in the left subclavian vein remained, as previously indicated. Currently, the patient has no symptoms and maintains a good quality of life.difficult to remove the thrombi after they exhibit strong adherence to the vessel wall. Resection of the first rib, the intravenous insertion of metallic stents, and balloon venoplasty are other therapeutic options; however, these procedures remain controversial. In the present case of a chronic occluded subclavian vein, we administered only anticoagulant therapy with warfarin to control the prothrombin timeinternational normalized ratio between 2.0 and 3.0. If the chronic obstruction in the left subclavian vein remains stable, the anticoagulation may be discontinued in the future after careful observation. As presented in this case, the possibility of PSS should be considered in patients with pulmonary thromboembolism, especially young athletes.
