A 10-year-old caucasian male presented to the emergency department (ED) after being referred by his pediatrician. Per the child's parents, the child had a cut to his right foot after stepping on a ripped tin can 10 days prior. At the time of injury, the child was taken to the ED and was noted to have significant bleeding. The wound was washed out and closed primarily once hemostasis was achieved with pressure. The child presented to the ED where he was noted to have erythema at the site of injury with a pulsatile soft tissue mass just anterior to his calcaneal region on the plantar aspect of his foot. There was no purulence or drainage from the wound, and his interrupted sutures were intact. An ultrasound was obtained which demonstrated a 2-cm pseudoaneurysm along the plantar aspect of the right foot. The patient had strong dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses on the right lower extremity. There was brisk capillary refill in the digits without signs of distal embolization. Given the unclear etiology of the pseudoaneurysm, vascular surgery was consulted and a computed tomography angiography (CTA) of the right foot was obtained. The CTA demonstrated that the pseudoaneurysm originated from the proximal lateral plantar artery and measured 2.2 Â 2.0 cm . There was no evidence of thrombus within the pseudoaneurysm, and it appeared to be amenable to ultrasound-guided thrombin injection. A total of 0.1 mL of Evicel (Ethicon Inc., Somerville, NJ USA) was injected under ultrasound guidance. Completion ultrasound showed an excellent technical result . The child was seen in the clinic a week later and noted to have a persistent pulsatile mass at the site of injury. Ultrasound demonstrated persistent perfusion of the aneurysm sac. Ultrasoundguided thrombin injection was attempted a second time followed by 20 minutes of compression. In the postprocedure unit, it was noted that the patient had a persistent pulsatile mass at the injury site. At this point, open surgical ligation was recommended. The patient was taken to the operating room where general anesthesia was administered and a tourniquet was placed on the right thigh. The child was heparinized with 5000 U of heparin, and the tourniquet was insufflated to a pressure of 250 mm Hg. A longitudinal incision was made on the patient's right foot. The plantar fascia was identified, and the pseudoaneurysm was seen protruding against this layer. The pseudoaneurysm was incised, and extensive thrombus was seen within the aneurysm sac . Cultures of the aneurysm sac were also obtained and sent, although there was no gross evidence of infection. Once the wound was irrigated, the two ends of the lateral plantar artery were identified; it was clear that the artery had been transected. The two ends of the transected artery appeared to be perfusing the pseudoaneurysm sac. Therefore, the two ends of the artery were ligated using 5-0 Prolene (Ethicon Inc., Somerville, NJ USA) sutures and 3-0 silk stick-ties. The tourniquet was released, and only mild oozing from the subcutaneous tissue was noted. The patient was given 20 mg of protamine for reversal, and the dermis and skin were closed with interrupted sutures. At the conclusion of the operation, the patient had palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial artery pulses. There was brisk capillary refill distally without signs of embolization. The patient was observed overnight in the hospital and did well. He was discharged home on the first postoperative day with crutches and given instructions to avoid weight bearing for 3 weeks. Results of intraoperative cultures demonstrated less than 50 000 colony-forming units of coagulase-negative Staphylococcus aureus. The patient was seen in follow-up with normal perfusion of his foot and absence of flow in the ligated pseudoaneurysm.
