A 65-year-old man had undergone total arch replacement with a Gealseal knitted Dacron graft (Sulzer Vascutek, Scotland, UK) for type A acute aortic dissection 22 years ago. A hand-sewn branched graft consisting of straight grafts 28 mm and 8 mm in diameter was used for the aortic arch. We made three holes on the 28 mm straight graft with a thermal cautery, and three straight grafts of 8 mm diameter were individually sewn with 3–0 polyester sutures before surgery. A 24-mm straight graft was used for the ascending aorta, and the branched and straight grafts were sewn after reconstruction of neck arteries. The patient was discharged from the hospital on postoperative day (POD) 33. He underwent descending aorta replacement six years after the initial surgery and thoracoabdominal aorta replacement 20 years after the initial surgery for enlargement of the redidual dissection. Computed tomography (CT) angiography showed a pseudoaneurysm of 46 mm in diameter on the ascending aorta graft before thoracoabdominal replacement. Aortography was performed but did not reveal the bleeding point; therefore, only a thoracoabdominal aorta replacement was performed. The size of the pseudoaneurysm gradually increased and reached 60 mm, and a dye stain was found inside the pseudoaneurysm after two years of follow up in an outpatient clinic . We performed median resternotomy after exposing the left femoral and right axillary arteries. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was established with cannulation of the right axillary artery, the left femoral artery, and the right atrium under normothermia. The pseudoaneurysm was opened and a thrombus inside the aneurysm was removed. Small bleedings were found on the anastomosis of the arch graft–brachiocephalic branch graft , arch graft–left subclavian branch graft, and ascending graft–arch graft. The bleedings were repaired with interrupted pledget-supported sutures. CPB was weaned off after the other anastomoses including native artery–graft anastomoses were carefully examined. CPB time was 89 min, and total operation time was 427 min. No postoperative complications or neurological sequelae were observed. A CT angiogram showed no blood leakage on POD 13, and the patient was discharged from the hospital on POD 16.
