We report the case of a 75-year-old woman who had suffered a myocardial infarction 23 years previously, which resulted in a calcific left ventricular (LV) apical aneurysm, severe LV dysfunction and postinfarction angina. She had undergone coronary artery bypass surgery and a LV aneurysmectomy, and continued to do well. A year later, she returned to the clinic complaining of symptoms of heart failure, and she was put on maximal anti-heart failure treatment. Two years ago, she had a biventricular device with a defibrillator fitted. At the time, computed tomography (CT) coronary angiography demonstrated patent grafts, a dilated left ventricle, a calcification at the apex and no evidence of a LV aneurysm. Three weeks prior to being referred to our hospital, the patient was noted by her general practitioner to have a leftsided breast mass but mammography was negative. A week later, she attended the accident and emergency department owing to a hypotensive episode with a systolic blood pressure of 80mmHg. She had a heart rate of 108 beats per minute, a respiratory rate of 24 breaths per minute and her oxygen saturation was 90% on 35% oxygen. Electrocardiography demonstrated biventricular pacing and sinus tachycardia. On examination, it was revealed that she had a large, non-tender, pulsatile mass located in the upper right quadrant of the left breast with extensive ecchymosis. She was successfully resuscitated and stabilised. Ultrasonography of the chest showed a 6.5cm Â 4.7cm heterogeneous mass located at the site of the swelling on the left breast consistent with a haematoma. Contrast enhanced CT of the thorax demonstrated a 6.5cm Â 8cm mass located in the left chest wall and consistent with a large haematoma. It was also noted that there was a communication with the pericardium overlying the left ventricle where there was evidence of previous LV aneurysm repair (Figs 1 and 2). The patient was referred urgently for cardiac surgical repair of the recurrent aneurysm. Intraoperatively, a femorofemoral cardiopulmonary bypass was established. A patch repair to her left ventricle was performed. She required an insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump and ample inotropic support to come off the cardiopulmonary bypass. She Ann R Coll Surg Engl 2014; 96: e6–e7 doi 10.1308/003588414X13946184900561 was transferred immediately to the critical care unit. On arrival, her haemodynamic status was stable. Despite this, she deteriorated rapidly and died.
