An 82-year-old man with a history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, coronary angioplasty, and, a prothrombin time of 10.1 seconds, an international normalized ratio of 0.94, a partial thromboplastin time of 47.9 seconds, and a serum glucose of 140 mg/dL; other findings were within normal reference values. The patient underwent EVAR under epidural anesthesia. Owing to a tapered proximal neck and small-diameter iliac arteries, a TriVascular Ovation Prime Abdominal Stent Graft System was chosen. Arterial access was obtained through bilateral femoral cutdown, and 5000 units of heparin were given. Guidewires were placed in the aorta, and all implant procedure and deployment instructions were carefully followed according to the Instructions for Use 3 (IFU) and consultation with the local manufacturer's representative. However, during polymer infusion of the inflatable rings under continuous angioscopy, the rings were incompletely filled, although the entire 11 mL of polymer was administered. Simultaneously, the patient reported a tingling sensation all over his body. He rapidly became unconsciousness, his systolic blood pressure dropped from 130 to 40 mm Hg, and he quickly suffered cardiopulmonary arrest. The patient was immediately intubated and cardiopulmonary resuscitation was initiated. Angiography revealed no signs of rupture. Angioscopy showed that the inflatable rings were completely empty of polymer. The episode was treated as an anaphylactic on-table cardiovascular collapse, and the patient was resuscitated. However, because of hemodynamic instability, the endovascular procedure was abandoned without trying to implant the limbs, and the patient was transferred intubated to the intensive care unit. He developed atrial fibrillation, which was successfully treated. He fully recovered after 3 days in the intensive care unit and was transferred to the main ward. Postoperative computed tomographic angiography demonstrated no polymer in the inflatable rings of the endograft . The patient was fully informed about the episode, and he refused to be further treated in either an endovascular or open manner. He was discharged after 10 days. Laboratory investigations on discharge showed a hemoglobin of 11.2 g/dL, a white blood cell count of 5180/µL, a platelet count of 229×10 3 /µL, a prothrombin time of 9.9 seconds, an international normalized ratio of 0.86, a partial thromboplastin time of 29 seconds, serum glucose of 243 mg/dL, and a lactate dehydrogenase of 319 U/L; other findings were within normal reference values. After 4 months of follow-up, the patient is asymptomatic, and he still refuses any treatment. The adverse incident was fully reported to TriVascular immediately after the operation through its local representative. The manufacturing company has taken responsibility for investigating the incident and addressing the technical error in the production.
