A 36-year-old man with a 6 years history of ACTHdependent CS  was admitted to the hospital complaining of intractable abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting for 10 hours. He was a known case of CS with central obesity, purple striae, diabetes and hypertension. Elevated serum levels of ACTH had been detected; however, despite performing a pituitary MRI, thoracic spiral computerised tomography (CT) scan, bronchoscopy and abdominal CT scan, the source of ACTH production had not been localised. Thus, bilateral adrenalectomy (BAL) had been performed 4 years ago. After the operation, the CS remained active, and a reevaluation 3 years later demonstrated a pituitary with suspicious appearance. He was scheduled for further localising studies including scintigraphy and Inferior Petrosal Sinus Sampling (IPSS) but he suddenly developed low grade fever, severe generalised abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting. On examination, the patient had the blood pressure of 182/112 mmHg and oral temperature of 37.9uC. Cardiac auscultation was regular and the abdomen was soft without tenderness. Laboratory results are noted in . The results of coagulation tests are presented in . After 4 hours of admission, for evaluation of undiagnosed severe abdominal pain, a CT scan was performed to evaluate the undiagnosed severe abdominal pain that revealed superior mesenteric artery occlusion . A transthoracic echocardiogragh revealed a large left ventricular clot. He had no history of thrombosis or cardiac problems. He was transferred to the operation room emergently. During laparotomy, diffuse ischaemia of small intestine was observed and nonviable portions were excised. After 2 days, another operation was performed, and all parts of the small intestine from 15 cm distal to the ligament of Treitz were excised because of necrosis. After the operation, he gradually deteriorated and developed multiple abscesses in the abdominal and pelvic cavity. He admitted in the intensive care unit, but despite treatment with broad spectrum antibiotics and surgical abscess drainage, the patient died 4 weeks later.Endogenous CS may result from inappropriate secretion of ACTH from a pituitary adenoma, or rarely ectopic ACTH producing tumours 5 or excessive production of cortisol from an adrenocortical tumour. Hypercortisolism has various consequences, such as central obesity, easy bruising, supraclavicular fat pad deposition, hypertension, diabetes, psychosis and osteoporosis. 6 The principal cause of death among CS patients is cardiac complications. 7,8 Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is also increased in CS especially after surgery. Some studies showed excessive amounts of factor VIII, factor IX, Von Willebrand Factor (VWF), fibrinogen and Plasminogen-activator inhibitor (PAI). 9,10 This evidence suggests that CS involves a hypercoagulable state. However, aside from VTE, there are no data regarding increased risk of arterial thrombosis in CS. Major causes of acute mesenteric ischaemia are superior mesenteric artery embolism and thrombosis. 11 Superior mesenteric artery embolism is most frequently due to left heart thrombosis, and left heart thrombosis in a patient without structural heart disease is a sign of a hypercoagulable state. The patient history and absence of fever prior to the beginning of abdominal pain were in favour of a non-infectious clot. The study of coagulation factors in this patient revealed elevated levels of factor VIII and fibrinogen. Increased levels of these factors during an inflammatory process can be a reaction to acute phases, but we were not able to differentiate these, from elevation due to CS activity, because the patient did not recover from his critical illness. Dexamethasone increases VWF release from endothelial cells. 12 Because VWF carries factor VIII, a concordant increase in VWF and factor VIII is observed in hypercortisolism. Although bilateral adrenalectomy (BAL) is a safe and effective treatment for symptomatic relief in patients with Cushing disease who have unsuccessful trans Two consecutive sections (A and B) of abdominal computerised tomography (CT) angiogram. sphenoidal surgery (TSS), 13 adrenal seeding during surgery and autografting of adrenal tissue within the abdominal cavity can cause recurrent CS. 14
