PEDIATRICS Volume 137 , number 2 ,Presenting vital signs were significant for mild tachycardia and tachypnea, and her axillary temperature was 101.7°F. Examination revealed a clinically stable child who was fairly settled. She had a grade 3 systolic crescendo-decrescendo murmur at the left lower sternal border. She had some substernal retractions, but her lung fields were clear on auscultation. Her abdomen was significantly distended and tender on examination. Liver edge was 2 cm below the right costal margin. The remainder of her examination was normal. Laboratory investigations revealed a white blood cell count 22 000 cells/μL, with a predominance of neutrophils (13 400 cells/μL), hemoglobin 8.1 g/dL, and platelets 469c000 cells/μL. C-reactive protein was elevated at 12.3 mg/dL. She had a compensated lactic acidosis. Chest film revealed a cardiothoracic ratio of 0.55, the upper limit of normal, but lung fields were clear. An abdominal ultrasound revealed mild hepatic enlargement, free fluid, and a small right pleural effusion. The patient was admitted to pediatric general surgery for further investigation and management of a presumed gastrointestinal process and treated empirically with antibiotics. Given the new murmur, cardiology was consulted. The patient remained stable overnight. On postadmission day 1, her tachypnea progressed from a respiratory rate of 30 to 50 breaths per minute on room air while maintaining oxygen saturation of 100%. Her respiratory status continued to deteriorate over the course of a few hours as she developed progression of her cough, grunting, and perioral cyanosis. She was transferred to the ICU for respiratory support and monitoring, and cardiology was reconsulted on an urgent basis. She required active resuscitation and inotropic support to maintain perfusion. An echocardiogram performed during the resuscitation revealed a right ventricular mass obstructing her right ventricular outflow tract, significant right ventricular hypertrophy, and depressed left ventricular filling (At autopsy, cardiac evaluation revealed a heart that weighed 65.5 g (normal range 49 ± 6 g). 6 The right ventricle width measured 0.4 cm and was severely dilated. There was a visible bulge on the anterior basal area of the heart corresponding to a yellow-red polypoid tumor, measuring 2.7 × 2.2 × 1.5 cm, arising from the posterior wall of the right ventricle just below the pulmonary valve ( . Both atria were dilated. No other abnormalities were noted in the cardiac structure. On examination of the body cavities, bilateral pleural effusions (right 30 mL, left 100 mL), hydropericardium (30 mL), and ascites (300 mL) were noted. Postmortem blood, cerebrospinal fluid, and pleural fluid cultures were negative. A postmortem nasopharyngeal swab for respiratory viruses was also negative. Histologic examination revealed a spindle-cell lesion with scattered mitoses of up to 2 mitoses per 10 high power field (
. There was no invasion of the myocardium. There were occasional foci of mononuclear inflammatory cells, and multiple areas of focal necrosis with overlying thrombi. The tumor stained positive for vimentin, supporting a mesenchymal origin. The spindlecell component of the lesion stained positive for muscle-specific actin and smooth muscle actin, consistent with a myofibroma ( . Desmin (various muscle types) and myogenin (skeletal muscle) both stained negative. The tumor also stained negative for anaplastic lymphomakinase-1 (ALK-1). The tumor stained negative for other cell lineages, including S100 and cytokeratin AE1/ AE3 (CAE1/AE3), therefore negative for neurogenic and epithelial markers, respectively. The final diagnosis of IMT was made on the basis of the presence of inflammatory cells with positive staining for muscle-specific actin and smooth muscle actin.
