This male child was born at 38 weeks of gestation after a normal pregnancy with intrauterine growth restriction. His birth weight was 2700 g, length was 45 cm, and head circumference was 32 cm (all under the fifth percentile). Cutaneous features developed at approximately 8 weeks of age, with purplered infiltrated and telangiectatic plaques, and sometimes with pustula that affected the cheeks, helix and lobule of the ears, tip of the nose, and dorsal side of the hands, fingers, and toes. He was also noted to have a reticulated patterning of the limbs. Rapid development of large eschars and secondary painful crusts on the cheeks and the tip of the helix were observed . These features worsened every winter according to cold exposure, with 3 to 4 cutaneous flare-ups per year associated with high temperatures that lasted approximately 7 to 10 days. Three histologic analyses of the telangiectatic plaques (3-mm biopsy specimens) revealed rare epidermal apoptotic keratinocytes and perivascular lymphocytic and neutrophilic infiltrates with nuclear dust (leukocytoclasia) throughout the entire dermis without damage to the vessel wall, fibrinoid necrosis, and thrombi. The results of direct immunofluorescence of lesional skin were negative. At the age of 3 months, he was also noted to be tachypneic. High-resolution IMPORTANCE The type I interferonopathies comprise a recently recognized group of mendelian diseases characterized by an upregulation of type I interferon signaling. These monogenic phenotypes include classic Aicardi-Goutières syndrome and syndromic forms of systemic lupus erythematosus, including familial chilblain lupus and spondyloenchondrodysplasia. Dermatologic features provide a major diagnostic clue to this disease grouping, as exemplified by the recently described stimulator of interferon genes–associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy (SAVI) caused by gain-of-function mutations in TMEM173.
OBSERVATIONS We describe a male child who, from the age of 2 months, had significant cutaneous disease that manifested as red violaceous plaques of the cheeks, nose, ears, fingers, and toes that progressed to gangrenous necrosis. In addition to his severe cutaneous vasculopathy, he experienced recurrent fevers, interstitial lung disease, and failure to thrive. His clinical syndrome was refractory to multiple immunosuppressive therapies. Evidence of marked upregulation of type I interferon signaling was observed in peripheral blood, and genetic testing identified a de novo germline mutation in TMEM173, confirming a diagnosis of SAVI 7 years after the onset of his disease.
