A 76-year-old man was admitted to our hospital's Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology in September 2005 due to symptoms of fever, decreased appetite, and abnormal laboratory findings such as elevated hepatobiliary enzymes pelvic computed tomography (CT), biliary infection was suspected and antibiotics were administered. However, his symptoms did not improve with this treatment, and blood cultures were negative for the presence of pathogens. Chest CT revealed a nodular shadow in the right upper lung lobe, and tissue obtained via needle biopsy under CT guidance was pathologically positive for Mycobacterium kansasii. The patient was thus administered antibiotics including isoniazid (INH) (300 mg/day), rifampicin (RFP) (450 mg/day), and ethambutol (EB) (750 mg/day). In addition, the patient's myeloperoxidase-anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (MPO-ANCAs) were strongly positive (90 U/mL). Conversely, the patient's anti-SS-A antibody and anti-SS-B antibody findings were negative. Given the abnormal urinary findings of proteinuria and microscopic hematuria, suggesting nephritis and the presence of peripheral neuropathy, we diagnosed the patient with MPA. Unfortunately, there were no findings suggestive of vasculitis in the lung tissue obtained via needle biopsy under CT guidance. Regarding the patient's renal function, he exhibited slight renal dysfunction, with blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels of 13.3 and 1.24 mg/dL, respectively. He was negative for hepatitis B and C infection as determined by serological testing. We began high-dose steroid therapy [prednisolone (PSL), 80 mg/day] in November of the same year. However, his inflammatory marker levels did not normalize, and thus, we started oral immunosuppressive therapy with cyclophosphamide (CPA) at an initial dose of 50 mg/day which we eventually increased to 75 mg/day. His numbness thereafter improved, and we gradually reduced the corticosteroid dose before he was discharged. These treatments also caused a gradual decrease in the patient's biliary enzyme levels, and his ALP level normalized to 330 IU/L at 2 months after the initiation of treatment for AAV. After 6 months, we modified his treatment from CPA to azathioprine (AZP) (100 mg/ day) and reduced the PSL dose to 9 mg/day in October 2007. Follow-up chest CT performed approximately 1 year later revealed that the nodular shadow in the right upper lung lobe caused by M. kansasii was almost completely eliminated without any signs of aggravation after the initiation of antitubercular drug therapy. We discontinued the antibacterial drug therapy. However, the patient's inflammatory markers continued to be weakly positive (CRP, <1.0 mg/dL) despite negativity for MPO-ANCAs. In addition, because microscopic hematuria persisted, we did not reduce the steroid dose and continued the administration of PSL (9 mg/ day) and AZP (100 mg/day) for 71 months from October 2007 to August 2013. The patient's CRP and ALP levels increased to 2.98 mg/dL and 878 U/L, respectively. In addition, abnormal casts, such as blood cell casts, appeared in the urine beginning in July 2013 (the patient was 84 years old at this time). Whole-body contrast CT and fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography performed to exclude infectious disease revealed no obvious abnormalities. We suspected exacerbation of AAV as the source of the elevated inflammatory marker levels, and we increased the patient's PSL dose to 30 mg/day and switched from AZP to oral CPA (50 mg/day) to induce remission in September and October of the same year, respectively. However, his serum ALP and CRP levels continued to be elevated, and a liver biopsy revealed plasma cell infiltration in the portal area . Moreover, based on the positive M2 anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMAs), we diagnosed the patient with PBC associated with MPA. His serum ALP levels normalized to 226 U/L in response to ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) (900 mg/day) and bezafibrate (400 mg/day), although his CRP levels remained elevated at 6.75 mg/dL in November. Thereafter, we tapered the corticosteroid dose gradually. In February 2014, his PSL dose was reduced to 10 mg/day with CPA (50 mg/day), and his urinalysis was normal. The patient's CRP levels decreased to 1.27 mg/dL. In addition, the patient's clinical symptoms did not deteriorate. The Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score also improved from 12 points at the time of the steroid dose increase to 0. The clinical course of the patient is summarized in .
Our Medline search identified 6 adult patients with PBC and AAV reported between 1980 and 2013. Including our patient, we evaluated 7 patients in total. The patient ages at diagnosis were similar: 55.9±15.9 years (range: 38-83 years) for PBC and 56.1±14.3 years (range: 39-76 years) for vasculitis. Regarding the relative timing of the diagnoses of PBC and vasculitis, 2 patients were diagnosed with PBC before vasculitis, 2 were diagnosed with vasculitis before PBC, and 3 appeared to have both diseases simultaneously. Of the 7 patients studied, our patient was the only male. In patients whose type of vasculitis was not specified in the cited articles, the types were deduced from the context of the articles and indicated as " s/o (suspected of) " as shown in . The types of AAV included MPA in 5 pa*1. The ages presented in this table are those of each patient at the onset of vasculitis. Abbreviation: M: male, F: female, MPA: microscopic polyangiitis, EGPA: eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis, GPA: granulomatosis with polyangiitis, s/o: suspect of, RPGN: rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis, CRP: C-reactive protein, ESR: Erythrocyte sedimentation rate, P-ANCA: perinuclear antineutrophil cytoplasm autoantibodies, N.D.: not done, n.d.: not described, PSL: prednisolone, AZP: azathioprine, POCY: per os cyclophosphamidetients, Chung-Strauss syndrome (CSS) in 1 patient, and Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) in 1 patient. In all patients, excluding ours, vasculitis was confirmed by biopsy. All patients with MPA were positive for MPO-ANCAs or perinuclear ANCAs (P-ANCAs). Regarding inflammatory responses, all patients had positive findings for both the ESR and CRP levels. The patients' clinical symptoms varied (Table 1). Regarding PBC, all 6 patients with available ALP measurements exhibited an increase in their ALP levels. Immunoglobulin M (IgM) levels were also elevated in all 3 patients with available IgM measurements. All 7 patients displayed positivity for AMAs. Regarding symptoms, the majority of these patients were asymptomatic, the exceptions being 2 patients with jaundice. The liver biopsy results were consistent with findings of PBC in all 7 patients undergoing biopsy. Of 5 patients with available pathological findings, 4 had PBC stage I or II (i.e., early-stage disease) .
