A 51-year-old female patient presented to our clinic in 03/2014 reporting a progressive visual impairment in her left eye over 6 months. BCVA was reduced to 20/40 and 30° perimetry showed a concentric visual field restriction. Hertel exophthalmometry showed a slight 2 mm proptosis of the left eye . Ocular motility was unaffected. CT imaging revealed a round, well-circumscribed posterior intraconal tumor close to the orbital apex, with a maximum diameter of 16.3 mm surrounding the optic nerve with an adjacent perforation of the superior orbital bony wall towards the anterior cranial fossa . In MRT scans, similar to case 1 the tumor was isointense to the extraocular muscles (hypointense to the orbital fat) before contrast enhancement, while showing irregular hyperintensity following contrast medium uptake . In view of the visual symptoms attributable to compressive optic neuropathy surgical intervention was mandatory. Due to the tumor localization in the orbital apex, a transcranial orbitotomy approach with pterional craniotomy was chosen, which allowed for complete excision of the intraconal tumor, which did not adhere to the optic nerve. Histopathological evaluation showed a hemangioma of a mixed capillary and cavernous type , thereby confirming the macroscopic assumption during surgery. In the postsurgical course, proptosis of the left eye resolved completely. Visual field defects were slightly regressing and visual acuity increased to 20/30. During the 15-month follow-up, no sign of tumor recurrence was clinically and radiologically detectable. Vascular tumors, particularly cavernous hemangiomas in adults and capillary hemangiomas in infants, belong to the most frequent primary benign orbital neoplasms . As the present cases typically demonstrate, these tumors can be located in the anterior (orbital entrance) or in the posterior orbit (orbital cone and apex), in the intraconal and less often in the extraconal space . Also with regard to their well-demarcated and rather spherical shape, the tumors of this series can be considered representative . However, vascular as well as other benign tumors are by definition incapable of invading neighboring tissues, thus primarily raising the suspicion for malignancy when bony erosions adjacent to an orbital neoplasm become radiologically apparent. Indeed, perforations of the bony orbital roof resulting in a patent connection between orbit and cranial cavity, which are caused by the angiomatous benign tumors described here, are highly exceptional. AnPage 4 of 4 20:63 extensive literature search revealed only three previously published single cases of bone erosions caused by primary orbital hemangiomas , among which only one showed a perforation of the orbital roof . The present cases demonstrate that such orbital roof perforations can originate from benign angiomatous tumors of both, the orbital entrance and the orbital apex. In the single case described by Yan et al., the orbital roof defect was associated with sound adhesion of the hemangioma to the surrounding tissues thus aggravating the operation . This observation corresponds to the surgical findings in our case 1, where strong adhesion with the frontobasal dura required a focal durectomy. Such adhesion complicates and prolongs surgery significantly apart from the potential need to reconstruct bony defects using implants such as resorbable polydioxanon foils. Among the mechanisms, which might contribute to bone destruction adjacent to benign orbital tumors, a pressure-induced atrophy might as well come into question as a pro-osteoclastic growth factor milieu derived from tumor surrounding inflammatory cells .
