A 52-year-old woman from Austria sought medical attention for a dry cough, severe shortness of breath, and increasing fatigue during her holiday trip to Australia. Symptoms first occurred four days before admission and about two weeks after long-haul air travel. Additionally, the patient presented with new-onset chest pain. The patient was known to have had non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), type cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), subtype Sézary syndrome, for about three years. After histopathological confirmation of lymph node infiltration (stage IVA) one year ago, the patient received six cycles of chemotherapy with liposomal Doxorubicin. This treatment was followed by extracorporeal photophoresis; the last cycle was administered two weeks before she traveled to Australia. Additionally, interferon-alpha therapy was started. However, because of the occurrence of retinitis and vision disorders, administration was stopped two weeks before the patient's journey. Her medical history also revealed hypereosinophilia and hyperlipidemia. At the start of the journey, the patient hadn't been on any medication. On first admission the patient presented with symptoms and signs of congestive heart failure. Physical examination showed hypotension and tachycardia (heart rate around 110 bpm). The patient had no fever, and oxygen saturation was within the normal range. On auscultation, no cardiac murmur was noted, but bilateral basal crackles were heard. A full blood count showed mild anemia (hemoglobin 113 g/l) and a total white cell count of 35.4×10 9 /l, with an increase in neutrophils (11.9×10 9 /l), lymphocytes (18×10 9 /l), eosinophils (4.4×10 9 /l), and basophils (0.5×10 9 /l). Further laboratory investigations revealed hypoalbuminemia (24 g/l) and raised concentrations of troponin I (0.23 μg/l), lactate dehydrogenase (319 U/l), CRP (34 mg/l), and BNP (2103 pg/ml). The troponin I level stayed on the same level for the first 24 hours after hospitalization. The following day, the troponin level was falling (0.177 μg/l). An electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with ST-segment depression and T-wave inversion in the inferolateral leads. Initial clinical differential diagnoses included non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), viral myocarditis, and lower respiratory tract infection. The patient was started on acetylsalicylic acid and enoxaparin, as well as on benzylpenicillin and doxycycline. A chest X-ray detected bilateral interstitial edema and basal plate atelectasis. A computed tomography pulmonary angiogram (CTPA) ruled out Because scintillating scotomas occurred in the left visual field, cranial CT and MRI were performed. The latter confirmed the presence of two small point-shaped lesions, one in the right cerebellar hemisphere and one in the right precentral gyrus, consistent with a recent embolic/ischemic event. Five days after the initial TTE, cardiac MRI showed that the mass had shrunk to a considerably smaller size (diameter: approx. 10 mm), freefloating and pedunculated, arising from the lateral wall . An additional echocardiographic cine-loop shows this in more detail (see Additional file 2). In combination with the diagnostic finding of the fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (F-18 FDG) positron emission tomography/CT, the suspect hypertrophic apical region seemed consistent with an infiltrative process of the lymphoma. The myocardium was thickened and there was a grayish discoloration of the tissue. The akinesia described earlier was not detectable anymore. In the repeat TTE performed one day later, the suspect hypertrophic apical region seemed consistent with endomyocardial fibrosis. Echocardiographic findings leading to the picture of endomyocardial fibrosis included the combination of myocardial thickening, a thrombus adherent to the endocardial surface, and enlargement of the left atrium. The patient received anticoagulation therapy between the imaging procedures showing reduction in size of the intracardiac mass. The disease course with shape change and size reduction of the intracardiac mass prompted the assumption that the intracardiac mass was most likely a thrombus with an estimated very high risk for embolization. Consequently, urgent surgery was indicated. Uneventful open-heart surgery using cardiopulmonary bypass was performed through a median sternotomy. Removal of the highly mobile left intraventricular mass was easily achieved by access via the left atrium . Histopathological examination of this tissue showed predominantly thrombotic material consisting of layered fibrin, partly encircled by histiocytes, and additionally a collagen rich scar area. After incision of the aorta, a suspicious incisional margin involving the apical region up to the middle of the left ventricle was identified. The margin's boundary to the surrounding tissue was not defined, and therefore it raised suspicion for being a malignant infiltration. The margin was removed as far as possible, and a biopsy of the apical region was taken. Malignant cells were not detected on histological evaluation. Postoperatively performed echocardiography showed normal left ventricular systolic function and normal wall movement in the absence of akinetic areas. The patient made an uneventful postoperative recovery and was therefore discharged, 11 days after surgery and in good general condition.
Cardiac MRI (T2-weighted). a: Cardiac MRI showing the thrombus filling the apex. b: Cardiac MRI showing the shrunken, free-floating, and pedunculated thrombus, arising from the lateral wall.Oral anticoagulation with phenprocoumon was initiated, and the patient is now in outpatient care for follow-up and further management.
