An 86-year-old man with a history of a cystoprostatectomy and Bricker reconstruction, incisional hernia, adiposity,and past treatment of a 55-mm infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) with a 36-mm-diameter Talent bifurcated endoprosthesis (Medtronic Cardiovascular, Santa Rosa, CA, USA) presented at his 5-year follow-up with a type Ia endoleak owing to distal stent-graft migration, leading to sac expansion from 52 to 65 mm. Open surgical reconstruction or a hybrid procedure with debranching of the renal arteries was deemed unfavorable considering his age and medical history, so a minimally invasive treatment was elected. The patient was ineligible for a fenestrated cuff due the position of the superior mesenteric artery. Treatment by deployment of a cuff in combination with EndoAnchors without a chimney graft was considered; however, this would lead to insufficient seal because of a short neck. It was decided to place a proximal cuff in conjunction with a parallel chimney graft to the left renal artery, and informed consent was obtained. The patient was operated under general anesthesia, and access was gained through the common femoral and left brachial arteries. Angiography confirmed the diagnosis of distal migration with a type Ia endoleak . A 7×38-mm Advanta V12 covered stent (Atrium Medical Corp/Maquet Getinge Group, Hudson, NH, USA) was positioned as a chimney graft in the left renal artery through the left brachial approach. A 36×40-mm Endurant cuff (Medtronic) was deployed just below the orifice of the right renal artery; the chimney graft was inflated and expanded. Intraoperative angiography depicted a persistent type Ia endoleak , and it was decided to use EndoAnchors in an attempt to resolve it. The cuff and the bifurcated graft were affixed to the aortic wall with 7 EndoAnchors placed in a U-shape around the chimney to resolve the endoleak and at other sites remote from the chimney graft for fixation. Completion angiography showed no endoleak and a patent chimney graft . The postoperative period was uneventful and the patient was discharged on the fourth postoperative day. A computed tomography angiography (CTA) scan at 1 month showed an unchanged AAA diameter without type Ia endoleak and no significant stent compression . A minor type II endoleak was present in proximity to a lumbar artery. Duplex ultrasound at 1 year showed no endoleak, a stable aneurysm diameter of 66 mm, and no other complications. The chimney graft and renal arteries were patent, and the renal function was stable with a glomerular filtration rate of 43 mL/min/1.73 m 2. The second case involved a 72-year-old man with a medical history of myocardial infarction and pacemaker implantation who in 1999 underwent an EVAR in another hospital using a Zenith endograft (Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN, USA). In 2013, the patient presented with a symptomatic left-sided type Ib endoleak that was treated with an Endurant iliac extension (Medtronic). One year later, the patient presented with a combined type Ia and III endoleak caused by a stent fracture and detachment of the top cap of the device, leading to aneurysm growth from 70 to 87 mm. Open surgery was considered but endovascular repair was preferred. It was decided to treat the endoleak with a proximal cuff, and informed consent was obtained. If the cuff proved insufficient, a single chimney to the left renal artery would be performed. Under local anesthesia, bilateral femoral artery cutdowns were performed. Angiography confirmed the diagnosis , and a 36-mm Endurant cuff (Medtronic) was placed just distal to the lower (left-sided) renal artery. Placing the Endurant cuff resolved the type III endoleak, but the type Ia endoleak persisted. Subsequently, access was gained through the left brachial artery, and a 6×38-mm Advanta V12 covered stent (Atrium Medical Corp/Maquet Getinge Group) was placed in the left renal artery. Then a second 36-mm cuff was placed just below the orifice of the right renal artery followed by deployment of the chimney graft. However, a type Ia endoleak persisted on completion angiography . EndoAnchors seemed the onlypotential solution to resolve this endoleak. Six EndoAnchors were placed in the second cuff in a U-shape around the chimney graft and at remote sites for fixation; completion angiography showed complete resolution of the endoleak . The postoperative course was complicated by a dissection of the right common iliac artery that extended proximally into the aortic wall. The internal iliac artery was coil embolized, after which the right iliac limb was extended to the external iliac artery, resolving the dissection. CTA at 3 months showed no signs of endoleak and an unchanged AAA diameter . Duplex ultrasound at 1 year showed no endoleak or other complications, with a stable aneurysm diameter. The renal arteries, including the chimney graft, were patent, and the renal function was stable with a glomerular filtration rate of 75 mL/min/1.73 m 2 .
