The demographics, medical conditions and resolution time of the five patients who presented to our institution and were diagnosed with the so-called incipient NA-AION over nine months are shown in Table I. Resolution time refers to the duration from the date of presentation or diagnosis in the senior author's (JFC) neuro-ophthalmology clinic at Singapore National Eye Centre, to the date when the optic disc swelling was recorded to have fully resolved. It must be emphasised that the diagnosis of full-blown or classical NA-AION can only be made in the presence of a visual field defect, even if visual acuity is normal. The diagnosis of incipient NA-AION, however, has to be made based on the presence of optic disc swelling with full visual fields and normal acuity, unless there is another cause such as maculopathy, as was observed in Case 4. The disc swelling that occurs in incipient NA-AION is usually of a mild degree at the outset and resolves spontaneously. In the present case series, the median resolution time was 9.6 weeks. In the current case series, visual acuity, colour vision and intraocular pressure were normal, except in one diabetic patient with maculopathy (Case 4). In all the cases, the fellow eye was intact. The hallmark sign of optic nerve disease, namely a relative afferent pupil defect (RAPD), was detected in only two patients. This could be due to the presence of only a very mild optic disc oedema and normal visual function at presentation among the remaining three patients. A 51-year-old Singaporean Malay woman presented to our clinic on March 13, 2013, with a complaint of blurred vision in the left eye (VL = 6/7.5) that persisted for two weeks. She had a known history of ischaemic heart disease, hypertension Incipient non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuropathy: a distinct clinical entity, the Singapore scene 3 A 56-year-old Chinese woman presented to the Accident and Emergency (A&E) department of Singapore General Hospital on August 15, 2012 with complaints of flashing lights, left blurred vision (VL = 6/6) and headaches that persisted for three weeks. She was under medical treatment for hypertension. Examination at the A&E department revealed a swollen left optic disc, which was initially thought to be due to papilloedema. This resulted in the patient being admitted into a neurology ward, where she underwent a series of investigations, including magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the brain and postnasal space, and a lumbar puncture. The tests results were all negative. Eight days later, prior to her discharge from the neurology ward, the patient was referred to our centre. We found a left RAPD and hyperaemic swollen optic disc, but no visual field defect was detected on confrontation testing. Both Goldmann perimetry and Humphrey visual field analysis were unremarkable. She was diagnosed with incipient NA-AION and Alphagan ® eye drops were prescribed. Over a period of three months, the left optic disc swelling gradually resolved without pallor or atrophy and repeat Humphrey visual field analysis was unremarkable. A 42-year-old Chinese man with no past medical history presented to a private eye clinic on November 19, 2012, with a two-week history of floaters. On examination, the left optic disc was found to be swollen, his blood pressure was 136/79 mmHg and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 1 mm/hr. Infective workup and blood lipids were normal. The following day, the patient presented to our centre. On examination, his vision was 6/6, but a left RAPD was present. Confrontation visual field examination, Goldmann perimetry and Humphrey visual field analysis were all unremarkable. The patient's left optic disc was swollen and hyperaemic . Incipient NA-AION was diagnosed and Alphagan ® eye drops were prescribed. MR imaging of the brain and orbits (performed later in a different institution) was unremarkable. Follow-up at our centre three months after diagnosis showed complete resolution of the optic disc swelling with no pallor or atrophy . Repeat Humphrey visual field analysis did not show any defect.
A 63-year-old Chinese woman with diabetic retinopathy and hypertension was referred to us from one of our retina/diabetic clinics on March 11, 2013. She complained of a three-week history of vague further loss of vision in her right eye. Her vision was reduced to counting fingers due to diabetic maculopathy and there was no RAPD recorded. Despite previous laser treatments, her Goldmann fields were full. However, her right optic disc was swollen and hyperaemic. Blood pressure recorded earlier was 133/80 mmHg. Alphagan ® eye drops were prescribed on the presumptive diagnosis of incipient NA-AION. The optic disc swelling remained unchanged after four weeks of treatment, but completely resolved after another six weeks of treatment. There was no pallor or atrophy, and repeat Goldmann fields were still full. Formerly, the diagnosis for this patient would likely have been diabetic papillopathy.
A 60-year-old Chinese woman with a known history of hypertension presented to our clinic on April 2, 2013 with a
