with respiratory distress and hypotonia at birth. Physical examination revealed ∼30 vascular skin lesions of 2 types:
(1) red papulonodules, slightly indurated, 2 to 10 mm in diameter, on the face, arms, legs, and feet; and (2) blue nodules, 5 to 10 mm in diameter, on the palms, feet, and face.Cranial MRI revealed peri-and intracerebral vascular lesions (hyperintensity on T1-weighted images, mixed signal intensity on T2weighted images with gadolinium enhancement). Two lesions (left frontal lobe and occipital region) were associated with hyperintense edema and a mass effect. Complementary investigations included a whole-body computed tomography scan, which revealed multiple vascular lesions of the liver, kidneys, bones (ribs, pelvis, and femoral epiphysis), and mucosal intestinal tract. Ophthalmologic examination revealed a vascular lesion on the right inferior temporal arcade. Results of a vascular lesion skin biopsy revealed a proliferation of welldifferentiated small vessels throughout the dermis projections (Figs 1A and 1B), with hobnail endothelial cells frequently lining these vessels. Some vessels showed a thick hyalinized wall and/or papillary intraluminal projections. Immunohistochemical staining was negative for GLUT-1 and D2-40 (∼38-kDa O-linked transmembrane sialoglycoprotein podoplanin) but positive for lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1 (LYVE1) (
. The diagnosis of MLT was confirmed.
Propranolol at 2 mg/kg per day (and then 3 mg/kg per day), systemic intravenous corticosteroids at 3 mg/kg per day, and vincristine at 0.05 mg/kg (2 doses) failed to control the vascular lesions, and a ventriculoperitoneal shunt was required to treat the cerebral edema. Status epilepticus and multiple visceral failure developed. Palliative care was provided, and the infant died at age 5 weeks. An autopsy showed multiple similar vascular lesions in the liver, kidney, lungs, small intestine (
, brain, and bones.
A male infant was born at term after an uncomplicated pregnancy.herpesvirus 8. The infant was diagnosed with MLT, with gastric and probable lung involvement. Gastrointestinal bleeding, thrombocytopenia, and a hemoglobin level ,7 g/dL necessitated weekly, and then daily, transfusions after the gastric biopsy was performed. When the infant was 5 months old, a multidisciplinary decision was made to introduce sirolimus (0.1 mg/kg per day), with the objective of increasing the serum sirolimus level from 5 to 10 ng/mL. A few days after sirolimus was started, transfusions were discontinued, and 2 repeated upper gastrointestinal endoscopies (with 1 month and 5 months of treatment) demonstrated no residual gastric bleeding but persistent vascular lesions. At the 14-month follow-up, the patient exhibited good tolerance to sirolimus but had 3 episodes of gastrointestinal bleeding (1 episode required blood transfusion) after 1 year of treatment, and an endoscopy performed at the same time revealed stability of the gastric vascular nodules. Sirolimus was increased to 0.2 mg/kg per day and was continued.
A male infant was born at term from a pregnancy achieved by in vitro fertilization. Physical examination at birth revealed multiple red-to-purple flat papules 1 to 3 mm in diameter associated with indurated nodules 5 to 15 mm in diameter distributed on the upper and lower limbs, feet, trunk, and scalp ( At 4 days of age, the infant presented with gastrointestinal bleeding (melena); his hemoglobin level was 7.2 g/dL. Endoscopy revealed 2 mucosal vascular gastric lesions and 1 large vascular lesion in the cecum. From age 4 to 30 days, the infant experienced daily gastrointestinal bleeding that required erythrocyte transfusions once a week despite therapy with propranolol, 3 mg/kg per day (day 4); corticosteroids, 1 mg/kg per day (day 14); and octreotide, 1 mg/kg per hour (days 15–30). Endoscopic sclerotherapy was performed on the stomach and cecum lesions, but after a short time, the melena recurred (∼2 times a week).
The patient's coagulation status was normal. Ultrasonography revealed liver, spleen, and kidney involvement; cranial and spinal MRI showed right vascular extraparenchymal lesions with a mass effect and vascular lesions of the conus medullaris. Radiography revealed osteolytic bone lesions of the right femur, right tibia, and the T2, T3, and T4 vertebral peduncles. Echocardiography produced normal results, with normal fundus oculi. Results of the skin biopsy revealed a proliferation of well-differentiated dilated capillaries with thin walls throughout the dermis and superficial subcutis (
. Some capillaries were lined with hobnail endothelial cells and focally formed intraluminal papillary projections. Endothelial cells were negative for GLUT-1 and D2-40 and focally positive for LYVE1 (
. The diagnosis was MLT despite the lack of thrombocytopenia.
At age 2 months, after multidisciplinary consultation, the A, Patient 2: hematoxylin and eosin–stained sections of gastric tissue demonstrating, in the lamina propria, multiple ectatic vessels lined by endothelial cells that focally formed intraluminal papillary projections. B, Lymphatic immunohistochemical staining of gastric endothelial cells was positive for D2-40. Original magnification: A, 3400; B, 3400. infant received sirolimus at 0.1 mg/kg per day; the objective was to increase the serum sirolimus level from 4 to 12 ng/mL. During 13 months of treatment, the child had 1 mild incident of gastrointestinal bleeding, which did not require blood transfusion. Skin lesions were resolved ( , with bone healing of the right femur and right tibia fractures; a decrease of 10% to 30% in the size of the kidney, liver, spleen, and brain vascular lesions (identical number); and resolution of the conus medullaris lesions. The treatment was well tolerated and continued.
