An 80-year-old woman was admitted to Coronary Care Unit (CCU) with clinical and electrocardiographic signs of the anterior AMI, accompanied by congestive heart failure and harsh systolic murmur along the left parasternal border. According to history data, she had chest pain on the evening before, but continued to be active and carry out home jobs. The following day, the chest pain recurred and was followed by dyspnea and fatigue, so she decided to go to hospital. On admission, the patient was adynamic, hypotensive, oliguric, with cold extremities and the heart rate was 100/min. Laboratory findings showed increased levels of troponin I (3,8 µg/L) and decreased creatinine clearance (50 ml/min), while the rest was within normal limits. Echocardiographic exam revealed 13 mm wide defect in the apical part of the ventricular septum, with significant left-toright shunt (pressure gradient 75 mmHg) . Left ventricular systolic function was severely depressed – the apex was entirely akinetic, septum and anterior wall were severely hypokinetic, the overall ejection fraction (EF) was 30% (biplane method). Based on tricuspid regurgitation 2-3+, indirectly estimated pres-sure in pulmonary artery was 61 mmHg. Treatment was started initially with diuretics, nitrates and inotropes, but since hemodynamic instability persisted despite medical therapy, urgent coronary angiography was performed in order to proceed with surgical treatment as soon as possible. Coronary angiogram showed one-vessel disease, i.e. thrombotic occlusion of the " hook like " left coronary artery (LAD) in its proximal part. Immediately formed Heart team, consisting of cardiologist from the CCU, interventional cardiologist and cardiac surgeon, decided that, because of extremely high operative risk (EUROSCORE II 37%), percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of the infarct related artery should be performed before surgery, in order to establish coronary blood flow as soon as possible and decrease risk, duration and complexity of the cardiosurgical intervention. Optimized balloon angioplasty was performed on proximal part of LAD  and, since adequate TIMI flow was achieved, the coronary stent was not implanted in order to lessen the risk of bleeding by withdrawal of loading dose of dual antiplatelet therapy. The patient was operated on the same day – successful surgical closure of VSR with patch plastic technique was performed. In the postoperative course, the symptoms and signs of heart failure gradually regressed and dual antiplatelet therapy was started on the second postoperative day. Postoperative transthoracic echocardiographic exam revealed 1 cm wide hyperechogenic patch, on the position of previous VSD, without the signs of residual shunt. Left ventricular function was improved, an overall EF was 40%. On postoperative day 15, the patient was discharged from the hospital in stable condition.
