Our patient is a 56-year-old man with ischemic cardiomyopathy who has had several admissions for worsening shortness of breath, lower-extremity edema, and increased abdominal girth. He was readmitted with the same symptoms. His medical history is significant for coronary artery disease, coronary artery bypass surgery performed 9 years before admission, mitral and tricuspid valve repair, atrial fibrillation with failed cardioversion, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia with an implantable cardiac defibrillator, pulmonary hypertension, severe hyperlipidemia treated with lipid apheresis using an arteriovenous fistula, and CKD with a baseline creatinine level of 1.5–2 mg/dl. Outpatient oral medications included furosemide, 60 mg in the morning and 40 mg in the evening; carvedilol, 12.5 mg twice daily; hydrochlorothiazide, 25 mg daily; digoxin, 0.125 mg daily; aspirin, 81 mg daily; mexiletine, 150 mg three times daily; and warfarin, 3 mg daily. He had intolerance to angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and statins. Pertinent physical examination findings included BP, 130/74 mmHg; heart rate, 84 beats/min; respiratory rate, 18 breaths/min; and weight, 88.7 kg (increased .10 kg during the last few months). Jugular venous pressure was elevated to the angle of the jaw with the patient at 45 degrees. Heart rate was irregular, with a II/VI systolic murmur loudest at the left sternal border. There were bibasilar crackles, tense ascites, and 21 pitting edema bilaterally up to the knees. He had an arteriovenous fistula in his left arm. Laboratory results were as follows: sodium, 131 mEq/L; potassium, 3.8 mEq/L; chloride, 89 mEq/L; HCO 3 , 32 mEq/L; BUN, 54 mg/dl; creatinine, 2.1 mg/dl; eGFR, 35 ml/min per 1.73 m 2 ; aspartate aminotransferase, 17 IU/L; alanine aminotransferase, 14 IU/L; alkaline phosphatase, 92 IU/L; total bilirubin, 1.2 mg/dl; international normalized ratio, 2.0; and hemoglobin, 8.9 g/dl. Result on a urine dipstick was negative for blood or protein. Echocardiography showed an ejection fraction of 25% with moderate to severe global hypokinesis of the left ventricle. The right ventricle was normal in size, with normal thickness, and systolic function was mildly reduced. The left atrium was mildly dilated, and the right atrial size was normal. There was a bioprosthetic mitral valve. There was moderate eccentric tricuspid regurgitation without other valvular stenoses or regurgitation. Right ventricular systolic pressure was elevated at 50–60 mmHg.
Unfortunately, our patient continued to have recurrent admissions for heart failure and AKI, with creatinine reaching as high as 4 mg/dl on several admissions. He ultimately required hospitalization and continued inotropic support. His eGFR was labile but generally fluctuated between 15 and 30 ml/min per 1.73 m 2 .
Our patient received an SHK transplant after being hospitalized for approximately 6 months. He is doing well, with a serum creatinine of 0.9 mg/dl (eGFR.60 ml/min per 1.73 m 2 ).
