A 37-year-old previously healthy white woman was stung by an unknown Hymenoptera; an hour later a rash developed accompanied by breathing difficulties and impaired consciousness. At a nearby clinic she was found to be hypotensive and was immediately given intravenous adrenaline (0.9 mg) and promethazine, and transferred to our emergency room. On admission she was agitated, tachypneic without stridor (approximately 24 breaths/minute), desaturated (arterial oxygen saturation, SaO 2 , approximately 84 on oxygen mask) and hypotensive (blood pressure was 85/50 mmHg) with cool and moist extremities. Her ECG demonstrated lateral wall ST elevation, inferior and anterior ST depressions. Echocardiography demonstrated left ventricular (LV) global basal and mid akinesis with preserved apical contraction, with an estimated LV ejection fraction of 20 % ( , b), her right ventricular cavity size was normal and its systolic function was mildly reduced. Combined cardiogenic and anaphylactic shock was therefore suggested. She was then mechanically ventilated and transferred to the cardiac catheterization laboratory for a presumed acute myocardial infarction. Cardiac catheterization revealed normal coronary angiography, severely reduced LV function with hyperdynamic apical function. The LV end diastolic pressure was 25 mmHg. At this time her blood pH was 7.2, lactate level was 3.3 mg/dl with a combined metabolic and respiratory acidosis. Her troponin I level was 0.14 ng/dl (high). An intra-aortic balloon pump was inserted and set to 1:1 augmentation, and various intravenous highdose inotropic agents including adrenaline, norepinephrine and dopamine were administered to achieve a central systolic blood pressure of approximately 100 mmHg and appropriate arterial oxygen saturation. She remained hemodynamically unstable under this aggressive pharmacological and mechanical support. Assuming a reversible cause of cardiomyopathy, venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VAECMO) was installed via the femoral vessels (21 F and 18 F for venous and arterial cannulas, respectively) with limb perfusion protection. A day later, she was extubated and as her cardiac systolic function improved she was gradually weaned off VAECMO support and inotropic agents over the following 48 hours. She was discharged with a near normal LV ejection fraction and gained a full complete recovery. Three weeks after the event she was asymptomatic with normal electrocardiographic and echocardiographic examinations (LV ejection fraction >65 %, , d) and she returned to her previous healthy normal life. She continued with Hymenoptera venom sensitivity testing and started a desensitization program.
