A 54-year-old man with a family history of coronary artery disease was admitted to our intensive coronary care unit for inferior ST-elevation acute myocardial infarction. The patient was scheduled for emergent primary * Correspondence: pablomaureira@hotmail.com 1 Department of cardiovascular surgery and heart transplantation, 1, Allée du Morvan, F-54500 Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France Full list of author information is available at the end of the article percutaneous coronary intervention 2 hours following the onset of chest pain. Coronary angiography revealed total occlusion of the right coronary artery , a chronic subocclusive stenosis in the left anterior descending artery , and a 90% stenosis in the ostium of the first diagonal artery. Thrombus aspiration and stenting of the culprit right coronary artery was performed with good angiographic results . Transthoracic echocardiography showed akinetic inferior and inferoseptal wall with an estimated left ventricular ejection fraction of 50%. Right ventricle (RV) was mildly dilated with severe dysfunction (TAPSE 11 mm and S wave tricuspid annulus velocity 9 cm/s). Neither mitral regurgitation nor pericardial effusion was reported. Three days after hospital admission, the patient complained of dyspnea and developed cardiogenic shock. Physical examination revealed a newly onset grade III/VI holosystolic murmur audible throughout the precordium. The hemodynamics continued to deteriorate despite inotropic support, which justified a mechanical circulation support with peripheral (femoral) veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). The hemodynamic parameters were thereafter stabilized. Another transthoracic echocardiography with Doppler color flow revealed a high-velocity left-to-right ventricular shunt suggesting a PIVSD . Poor quality of images obtained with parasternal view rendered them uninterpretable in this recumbent patient with ECMO. An emergent thansesophageal echocardiography (TEE) was therefore necessary. The two-dimensional (2D) TEE identified a large VSD  and a mild mitral regurgitation, Qp/Qs was calculated to be 2.8. As the initial 2D morphological findings were insufficient to comprehend the relationship between the defect and the surrounding structures, we performed real-time three-dimensional (3D) TEE images to acquire detailed findings with regard to the size, the shape and the relationship with surrounding tissue, which confirmed an anterial muscular septal defect measuring 27*38 mm ( , F), and revealed a mild mitral valve regurgitation, without papillary muscle tearing nor mitral chordae rupture being detected. As the hemodynamics was maintained with ECMO, a semi-elective operation was performed 7 days following initial mechanical support. After median sternotomy, ECMO was temporarily ceased, femoral venous cannula was retrieved back for 10 cm, and cardiopulmonary bypasswas instituted with bicaval cannulation. The VSD was approached by the left ventricular transinfarct incision . Consistent with TEE finding, intraoperative exploration revealed a large anterior VSD of approximately 4 cm in major diameter, and the rim of septal defect appeared to be consolidated by the fibrous scar . The VSD was repaired ( , 2D) with a Dacron patch (Hemashield Finess, Boston Scientific, Boston, MA) using interrupted 2–0 Ethibond pledgeted sutures. Cardiopulmonary bypass was weaned with a high dose of inotropes and the ECMO flow was resumed. Post-operative echocardiography excluded residual left-toright shunt and mitral regurgitation. Postoperative evolution was favorable with rapid resolution of cardiogenic shock situation. The patient was weaned from ECMO and inotropic agents on postoperative day 15. The recovery was uneventful and the patient was doing well 6 months later with NYHA class II.
