A 41-year-old Korean woman was admitted to our hospital with the complaint of recurrent chest pain in February 2014. The pain felt like squeezing of her chest, which radiated to her left arm, occurred usually in the morning or when it was getting cold, was aggravated by stress and relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin spray. She was diagnosed with moyamoya disease 8 years ago in 2006 and received indirect revascularization, encephaloduro-arterio-synangiosis ( and B), she has had chest pain since then. One month later, she underwent a cardiology work up including exercise stress echocardiography and coronary angiography (CAG) at another hospital. Exercise stress echocardiography showed left anterior descending artery (LAD) territory ischemia but the CAG showed no significant coronary artery stenosis. She was diagnosed with syndrome X and then referred to a psychiatrist at that time. She had never smoked cigarettes, she was not a social drinker and she denied a A B Brain magnetic resonance imaging and angiography after indirect revascularization (arrows). A: Magnetic resonance angiography, coronal view; B: axial view.family history of cardiovascular disease. She has complained of intermittent chest pain and the intensity of it increased before she visited our hospital. The results of laboratory tests including creatine kinase, creatine kinase-MB, and troponin T were within normal levels and electrocardiography showed sinus rhythm with no ST-segment abnormality. Echocardiography showed normal LV function and no regional wall motion abnormality. A treadmill test showed positive result of ST-segment depression and chest discomfort at stage 4. Coronary computed tomography angiography and CAG ( and B), showed a hypoplastic right coronary artery without significant coronary artery stenosis. We performed a coronary spasm provocation test, suspicious of vasospastic angina. Ergonovine 0.2mg was injected three times intravenously at 5-minute intervals. We achieved cine angiogram at 90 seconds after each ergonovine injection. Coronary angiography demonstrated proximal LAD focal 95% stenosis after two administrations of intravenous ergonovine; the patient complained of typical chest pain and there were ST-segment changes ( and B). After injection of intracoronary nitroglycerin, the stenosis was completely resolved and her T wave was normalized ( and D). An intravascular ultrasound virtual histology (IVUS-VH) image for the site of the spasm showed fibrous plaque occupying 33% of the coronary luminal area . Finally the patient was diagnosed with variant angina and we prescribed calcium channel blocker, nitrate and moderate dose of statin. Her chest pain seemed to be controlled with those medications; however, her chest pain recurred several months later. We added nicorandil and non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker; we are monitoring her every month at our out-patient clinic and up to now there have been no further events.
