A 78-year-old man was transferred to our hospital due to ongoing chest pain lasting for at least six hours. Seven years earlier, he had undergone PCI for stable angina with the implantation of a sirolimus-eluting stent (SES) at the site of severe stenosis in the proximal left anterior descending (LAD) artery. His other medical history is significant for hypertension and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. He had been taking anticoagulants, including aspirin and clopidogrel, but not warfarin, as he experienced repeated nose bleeds due to substantial fluctuation in the prothrombin time-international normalized ratio (PT-INR). The initial electrocardiogram (ECG) was notable for elevated ST segments throughout the precordial leads, and all biomarkers were markedly elevated. The creatinine clearance was calculated to be 64 ml/min, and transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) showed severe hypokinesis of the anterior wall and septum from the base to the apex of the left ventricle, although no apical thrombi were detected at that point. Emergent coronary angiography demonstrated complete occlusion of the previous SES (3.5 mm×23 mm), with a thrombus in the proximal LAD artery . After aspirating the thrombus, the coronary flow was restored, and a severe stenotic lesion became apparent in the proximal portion of the stent . We subsequently performed PCI of the lesion and implanted a zotarolimus-eluting stent (3.5 mm×38 mm) . Final angiography showed a good distal flow without residual stenosis . The level of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) was found to be elevated up to 7,726 U/L. TTE performed on day 10 after admission revealed an immobile thrombus (26 mm×16 mm) in the apex of the left ventricle , and treatment with dabigatran therapy (110 mg b.i.d.) was initiated. The patient did not receive thrombolytic agents, such as tissue plasminogen activator orurokinase, due to fear of the potential for bleeding complications under dual antiplatelet therapy. In addition, intravenous heparin was not given at this time, since dabigatran, in contrast to warfarin, exhibits a rapid onset of action. Following dabigatran administration, the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) was slightly increased (34 sec44 sec), whereas the level of D-dimer was significantly decreased (10.1 μg/mL1.0 μg/mL). TTE showed a significant decrease in the thrombus size after seven days of dabigatran treatment (19 mm×7 mm) , and complete thrombus resolution was achieved after 18 days of anticoagulant therapy with dabigatran . No systemic thromboembolic events occurred over the entire treatment period. While the patient has continued to receive the triple antithrombotic therapy (dabigatran plus aspirin and clopidogrel) for a six-month period after discharge, he has not developed any serious bleeding complications and has remained free of LVT recurrence.
