A 25-year-old white woman with a documented history of TA and total occlusion of her left main coronary artery received a CABG (LITA-LAD) in 2004. In 2012, two episodes of angina, due to graft failure, were treated by percutaneous coronary interventions using a Xience Prime drug-eluting stent. Unfortunately she was referred back to our hospital with signs of unstable angina after an initial symptom-free period of 4 months. During this period she received two platelet inhibitors (ticagrelor 90 mg, orally twice a day and Ascal (carbasalate calcium) 80 mg once a day), metoprolol 150 mg, ramipril 2.5 mg, simvastatin 40 mg, isosorbide mononitrate 60 mg twice a day and one dose of methotrexate (2 mg) every week in combination with folic acid. A clinical examination showed no abnormalities, besides a significant difference in blood pressure to the prejudice of the left side with absent radial pulsations. Her chest X-ray showed a normal heart size. A 12-lead electrocardiogram showed T-wave depression in the precordial and lateral leads. Blood biochemical and hematological parameters, including cardiac enzymes, were within normal range. A computed tomography angiogram was performed revealing a thickened aortic wall at the level of the aortic arch with a normal diameter and occlusion of her left subclavian and left pulmonary artery. The coronary angiogram revealed a total occlusion of her left main coronary artery and recurrent graft failure, with significant double in-stent restenosis of 99 % in the LITA-LAD. Her left coronary system was filled by collaterals from the right, dominant, system . In consultation with the patient we decided on a reCABG using a Dacron (Vascutek®, Renfrewshire) patch on her aorta for the proximal anastomosis which was performed on 6 September 2012. Intraoperatively we encountered a thickened and inflamed aortic wall, in which the left lateral side was severely affected. We performed redo CABG using a SVG to the anterolateral, first diagonal and LAD. For the proximal anastomosis an oval Dacron (Vascutek®, Renfrewshire) patch was tailor-made by the surgeon and attached to her side-clamped aorta. Subsequently, the venous graft was sutured into the patch using prolene. Biopsies from the ascending aortic wall and the LITA proximal to the stent were taken. Histological examination of the aortic wall specimen demonstrated extensive changes including significant intima proliferation without calcification and a nonspecific chronic inflammatory response with widespread fibrosis . The LITA specimen showed some reactive changes but no specific inflammatory characteristics. Both the intraoperative and postoperative courses were uneventful and the patient was discharged 5 days after surgery. Fraxiparine (nadroparin) injections (0.3 ml) were added to the medical regimen and Ascal (carbasalate calcium) dosage was increased to a 100 mg once a day. Since then, the patient routinely visits the cardiology out-patient clinic. Her last examination  revealed no signs of recurrent coronary perfusion problems: she reported no angina complaints during exercise, an electrocardiogram revealed no abnormalities and echocardiography showed no signs of left ventricular dysfunction or wall-motion abnormalities. Since December 2014 she stopped taking methotrexate because of an active pregnancy wish. Despite the withdrawal of immunosuppressive medication her TA is still in remission to date.
