A 24-year-old man with a mechanical mitral prosthesis for 14 years was referred to our hospital 2 days after the onset of acute myocardial infarction. He had been on anticoagulant therapy with warfarin without any prior ischemic event. An electrocardiogram demonstrated VVI pacemaker rhythm (implanted 10 years earlier) with no interpretable ST/T changes. Serum troponin I was found to be elevated. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a mechanical mitral prosthesis with normal function; the mitral valve area was measured as 3.0 cm 2 with normal transvalvular gradients. It also showed anterior and apical wall motion abnormalities of the left ventricle, with a reduced ejection fraction (40%). We did not observe any evidence of thrombus on echocardiography. An angiogram revealed a local intraluminal filling defect in the mid portion of the left anterior descending artery with TIMI 2 flow and no other evidence of atherosclerosis . The right coronary and circumflex arteries were free of significant atherosclerotic lesions. We did not consider an intervention at the time of diagnostic catheterization. We revised the anticoagulation strategy to intravenous unfractionated heparin and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor (tirofiban) treatment. Twenty-four hours later, a second coronary angiogram showed no difference in the filling defect. We decided to aspirate the thrombus with a rapid-exchange clot-extraction catheter (Diver CE; Invatec) using a 7F left Judkins guiding catheter and a 0.014-mm guidewire. After 3 attempts at aspiration, there was 30%–40% residual narrowing at the thrombus site with TIMI 3 complete perfusion flow, and it this was considered an acceptable result.The aspirated material (30 cc) revealed multiple whitish firm tissues . Pathological analysis of the thrombectomy material demonstrated histiocytes, indicating a chronic thrombus . To our knowledge, this is the first report of an embolic myocardial infarction with clearly demonstrated chronic thrombotic tissue. On follow-up, the patient was treated with warfarin and aspirin, and no further embolic events have been observed. A 59-year-old woman who had undergone mechanical mitral and aortic valve replacement 1 year earlier, was referred to our hospital with central chest pain. She had been on anticoagulant therapy with warfarin. Her prothrombin time was 17.7 s, and the international normalized ratio was 1.5. An electrocardiogram demonstrated sinus rhythm, >2-mm horizontal ST-segment depression in leads V4–6, and T wave inversions at inferior derivations. Consecutive troponin I levels were measured as 6.59 and 10.95 ng dL À1 (normal: 0.00–0.10 ng dL À1 ). Transthoracic echocardiography showed preserved valve and left ventricular function and no thrombus image on the mechanical prostheses. Transesophageal echocardiography revealed normally functioning mitral and aortic mechanical valve prostheses and a possible 2–4-mm thrombus on the mitral valve prosthesis . There had been no significant atherosclerotic lesions on a coronary angiogram performed one year before the operation. Anticoagulant therapy with intravenous unfractionated heparin and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor (tirofiban) was applied. Oral acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg,metoprolol succinate 50 mg, and clopidogrel 75 mg Â 4 were also given. The patient was referred for coronary angiography which revealed a globular filling defect in the bifurcation of the distal branches of the posterolateral branch of the right coronary artery . We did not observe any other significant atherosclerotic lesions. Aspiration of the thrombus was not performed in this case. The patient was medically treated with warfarin and aspirin after the coronary angiogram. Her international normalized ratio values were between 3.5 and 4.0, and subsequent echocardiographic evaluation revealed a normally functioning mitral valve prosthesis without thrombus. The patient has been followed up without any embolic events.
