A young man, who had a history of KD at the age of 4 years, developed two giant coronary aneurysms (one measuring 9 mm in diameter at the bifurcation of the left main trunk and the other measuring 7 mm in diameter at the proximal right coronary artery) despite high-dose aspirin treatment in the acute phase. Although the patient had been treated with dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and ticlopidine since then, coronary MR angiography revealed thrombus formation in the left coronary aneurysm at the age of 19 years. He was referred to our outpatient cardiology clinic for management of the thrombus, and warfarin anticoagulation therapy was initiated. At the age of 24 years, he was admitted to our hospital two hours after the onset of chest pain. A standard 12-lead ECG revealed ST-segment elevation in V 1-4 and abnormal Q waves in V 1-3. He indicated that he had been noncompliant with his anticoagulation therapy; he took his medicines only for a week before his regular visits to our outpatient clinic. Consistent with his statement, his PT-INR was 1.07 when hospitalized. Although the rapid troponin T test was negative, he was diagnosed with acute myocardial infarction based on the clinical presentation and typical ECG findings. He was immediately transferred to the catheterization laboratory, and emergent coronary angiography was performed. The angiographic picture revealed total occlusion of the left anterior descendingcoronary artery (LAD) just after the giant aneurysm . The presence of the giant coronary aneurysm made the coronary intervention difficult. However, we were able to wire the LAD utilizing the previous coronary CT angiographic picture as a reference . The thrombus in the aneurysm was subsequently aspirated, and the anteroseptal myocardium was reperfused. The procedure required only 100 minutes to reperfuse the lesion. The peak CK and peak CK-MB levels were 6143 IU/L and 310 IU/L, respectively. Anticoagulant therapy was then administered to resolve the remaining thrombus in the giant left main trunk aneurysm. The follow-up coronary angiography on day 10 showed that the thrombus was gradually decreasing in size . The patient was educated on the importance of compliance with medical treatment for giant coronary aneurysms and was discharged with an optimal PTINR. Because his adherence to the medical treatment improved remarkably, there has been no recurrence of myocardial infarction.
