Our patient is an active 62-year-old male with a remote history of coronary artery disease, who was diagnosed with metastatic melanoma in 2007. He had previously undergone right lung wedge resections in 2010 for metastatic disease and had subsequent resection of liver, adrenal, and brain metastases in 2012. The patient was receiving Anti PD-1 infusions IRB approval: At our institution, IRB approval is waived for case reports.for melanoma every 3 weeks under the care of his oncologist as part of a clinical trial. In March of 2013, he presented with pulmonary emboli and was placed on rivaroxaban (Xarelto); however, a month later, he was found to have enlarging clot in the pulmonary circulation and was placed on therapeutic Enoxaparin Sodium (Lovenox). He subsequently had an IVC filter placed at an outside institution. In August 2013, he was referred to our institution for management of severe progressive dyspnea, with imaging identifying a large volume thrombosis extending from the femoral veins bilaterally, into the vena cava and proximal right atrium, along with chronic, mildly enlarging pulmonary emboli in left main and right posterior segmental pulmonary arteries. Our Interventional Radiology service was consulted for potential lysis. A contrast-enhanced MRI showed no evidence of recurrent intracranial metastases, and thus the decision was made to proceed with catheter-directed thrombolysis (CDT) using an EKOS EndoWave Infusion Catheter System (EKOS Corporation, Bothell, WA) via the bilateral popliteal veins. Lysis was carried out for 24 h at an infusion rate of 1 mg alteplase per hour. Follow-up venography demonstrated grade III lysis in the pelvic veins (99–100 %), with residual occlusive thrombus in the suprarenal IVC, superior to the indwelling vena cava filter, extending to the cavoatrial junction. The filling defect was refractory to balloon angioplasty, and transcatheter lysis was reinitiated at a dose of 0.5 mg alteplase per hour. The patient remained on systemic anticoagulation with heparin. A repeat lysis check at 48 h demonstrated persistent filling defect in the suprarenal IVC, and thus two overlapping uncovered stents (14 mm 9 40 mm Protege stents, EV3, Covidien) were placed, with the goal of excluding the filling defect. Post-deployment venoplasty was performed with an Atlas 14 mm x 4 cm balloon. Subsequent venography demonstrated antegrade extrusion of the cavoatrial filling defect into the right atrium. Echocardiography demonstrated a mobile mass measuring 82 9 41 mm with a thin attachment to the cavoatrial junction in the region of the IVC stent, which prolapsed into the right ventricle during diastole. Therapeutic options were reviewed by a multidisciplinary team, including continued systemic anticoagulation, open surgical resection, and endovascular retrieval using the Vortex Angiovac system (AngioDynamics, Marlborough, MA). The patient was placed under general anesthesia. Venous access was obtained in the right internal jugular, right common femoral, and left common femoral veins. Ann18 French FemFlex arterial reperfusion sheath was placed in the left common femoral vein , B. Through and through access through the IVC stent was obtained over a Lunderquist Extra Stiff DC guide (Cook Europe, Bjaeverskov, Denmark) wire. The right IJ access point was then serially dilated over the wire, and a 26-French Gore DrySeal sheath was advanced under fluoroscopic and transesophageal echo (TEE) guidance into the proximal right atrium. The extracorporeal circuit was then primed to ensure an airless connection, checked and attached to the Angiovac filter, and also the left common femoral reperfusion site. The Angiovac endoluminal excision catheter was advanced through the right internal jugular sheath to the level of the right atrial mass/thrombus. Systemic heparinization with an ACT (Activated Clotting Time) greater than 300 was maintained at all times. The suction flanges of the Angiovac device were then carefully inflated. The venovenous bypass was commenced, with manipulation of the suction cannula under continuous imaging guidance. Care was taken to avoid aspiration of the tricuspid valve or atrial wall. Incremental increasing of flow through the cannula by the perfusionist was performed to a maximum rate of 3.5 l per minute , B. This resulted in aspiration of the atrial mass in several large fragments. Complete resection was noted on TEE. Both angiography and echocardiography showed no evidence of non-target embolization. The aspiration cannula was then repositioned to the orifice of the stent arising from the IVC, in attempts to retrieve residual thrombus at the stent site. The IVC stent at the cavoatrial junction was balloon dilated to 14 mm using a 14 9 2 Conquest balloon (Bard Peripheral Vascular, Tempe, AZ), while continuous aspiration distal to the stent was performed with the Angiovac cannula. Completion pulmonary angiography and pulmonary arterial pressure measurements were unchanged at the end of the procedure.The extracorporeal circuit was then carefully taken down, and all access points were closed with manual compression and purse string sutures, while protamine was administered for reversal of heparinization , D. Following the procedure, the patient was placed on Dabigatran (Pradaxa) oral anticoagulation. The patient demonstrated improved walking scores, decreased dyspnea on exertion, and a rapid return to normal function. He was discharged from the hospital 2 days later. Follow-up imaging showed resolution of the intracardiac filling defect, with an unchanged amount of tumor thrombus trapped within the stent. Pathologic analysis of aspirated material confirmed metastatic melanoma with surrounding bland thrombus , B.
