A 52-year-old diabetic and hypertensive man was admitted to another hospital with acute anterior myocardial infarction, and underwent primary angioplasty with optimal door-to-balloon time, TIMI 3 flow, and clinical improvement as well as electrocardiographic resolution of ST-segment changes . He remained asymptomatic for 10 days, then developed a low-grade fever for 2 days, later with chills and rigors, and pyrexia persisted for 2 weeks. There were no new electrocardiographic changes. He was referred to our hospital for further evaluation and management. In view of the recent cardiac intervention, he was evaluated for possible infective endocarditis or endarteritis. Clinically, there was no stigmata of endocarditis. A hemogram showed neutrophilic leukocytosis and an increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate with normal urinary sediment. Chest radiography did not reveal any pulmonary source of infection. Blood cultures persistently grew Staphylococcus aureus (methicillinsusceptible). A 2-dimensional echocardiogram showed normal valves, mild hypokinesia of the anterolateral wall and apex with mild left ventricular dysfunction and no left ventricular clot. In short-axis view at the aortic valve level, echolucency was seen away from the aortic root, raising the suspicion of either an aneurysm or myocardial abscess. Stent endocarditis or infected aneurysm of the drug-eluting stent was suspected and treated with intravenous cloxacillin 2 g every 4 h. In view of a possible infected coronary aneurysm with persisting low-grade pyrexia despite appropriate antibiotic therapy, a coronary angiogram was performed. The left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) showed a large aneurysm at the stented segment, with TIMI 2 flow distally . Under antibiotic coverage, the patient was taken up for surgery.With cardiopulmonary bypass support, the aorta was crossclamped. Blood cardioplegic arrest was established. Flimsy adhesions to the pericardium were noticed at the aneurysm site. Needle aspiration of the aneurysm revealed pus collection. De-roofing of the infected aneurysm was carried out, and the stent was removed along with debridement. The proximal and distal ends of the aneurysm were identified and ligated. A saphenous vein bypass graft was anastomosed to the mid LAD. The left internal mammary artery was not used due to intense inflammatory changes around the abscess, superior mediastinum, and left internal mammary artery area, and pulsation of this artery was poor. As the LAD was proximally ligated and predictable flow in the LAD was required, saphenous vein was used. Postoperatively, the patient was afebrile and hemodynamically stable. Pus from the infected aneurysm grew Staphylococcus aureus. A coronary angiogram showed a patent saphenous vein graft to the LAD . On follow-up at 9 months, the patient was asymptomatic.fever with chest pain that occurred within 4 weeks after stent implantation, with high mortality. Identified risk factors for stent infection by Kaufmann and colleagues 5 were age over 60 years and the presence of congestive heart failure. Schoenkerman and colleagues 3 added the risk factor of recent infection with Staphylococcus aureus within 15 days prior to angioplasty. Our patient was <60 years without congestive cardiac failure and not responding to medical treatment, with continuing pyrexia and positive Staphylococcus aureus blood cultures. The first case report of stent infection following drug-eluting stent implantation was by Alfonso and colleagues 6 in 2005. Studies on whole human blood suggest that therapeutic doses of rapamycin are associated with dysregulation of the innate responses to bacterial infection. 7 Such a drug-eluting stent does not produce the systemic therapeutic level of rapamycin, but an effective dose locally at the vessel wall. Whether drug coating of stents may have a role in diminishing the local immunological response of the vessel wall remains to be determined. Leroy and colleagues 8 reported a case of infective aneurysm of the LAD following stent implantation; infective mitral endocarditis due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa occurring a few weeks after stenting led to a search for stent infection, and coronary angiography revealed a saccular aneurysm of the LAD. Despite surgical repair, a fatal outcome resulted in that case. In our case without another site of endocarditis, infection of the stent with aneurysm developed, and a good result was achieved after surgery. This is one of the few successful cases of surgery for infected aneurysmal drug-coated stent endocarditis. Presented at the Monthly Meeting of The Indian Society of Thoracic Surgeons, Hyderabad, India, August 12, 2011.
