A 9-day old male neonate (weight = 3.1 kg) presented with discordant ventriculoarterial connections. Anatomically, the pulmonary artery was positioned anterior to the aorta with an usual coronary pattern: the left main stem (LMS) and the right coronary artery originated from the pulmonary artery root separately. LMS bifurcated to left anterior descending and circumflex arteries. The patient underwent ASO with LeCompte manoeuvre following mobilization of both LMS and right coronary artery with implantation of mobilized coronary buttons to the aortic root. Two weeks following surgery after discharge the patient was admitted as an emergency with severe left ventricle dysfunction. The patient underwent an urgent cardiac catheterization, which demonstrated the tethering and stenosis of LMS sparing the bifurcation. Although a subsequent transluminal balloon coronary angioplasty temporarily relieved the stenosis, the recurrence of LV dysfunction and ECG changes warranted the second cardiac catheterization. The latter confirmed the restenosis of LMS (Figs 1 and 2A) for which the patient underwent an emergency redo sternotomy accompanied by cut-down of the right thigh. The saphenous vein was found to be too small to be used as the patch material, and therefore, attention was brought to the left innominate vein (LIV). The LIV was fully mobilized and momentarily occluded by clips to avoid wrinkles secondary to occlusion. Then, a square section from the anterior wall of LIV was taken and this was replaced with a patch of autologous pericardium maintaining the vessel patency . Following dissection of adhesions and aorto-right atrial cannulation accompanied by left atrial vent, the patient was placed on cardiopulmonary bypass and cooled to 25°C. The pulmonary artery was transected and pulled away by stay stitches to fully expose the aorta. After application ofthe cross clamp on the ascending aorta and administration of cardioplegia, a 5-mm vertical incision was made on the aorta in relation to the left coronary button. A small coronary probe was passed through the incision into the LMS beyond the stenosis . The vertical incision was then extended on the course of the probe. The LIV patch was sewn into place using continuous 8-0 suture material while the edges of incision were kept open by stay stitches. Following completion of the coronary repair , the cross clamp was removed after a total of 64 min. The patient was uneventfully weaned off cardiopulmonary bypass with satisfactory flow through the coronaries confirmed by the perioperative echocardiogram. His postoperative course was largely unremarkable and the patient was discharged after 9 days. During the follow-up, he demonstrated a remarkable progress, and an echocardiogram performed at the 3 years of age revealed satisfactory coronary flow and good left ventricle function. There were no upper limb complications or neurological symptoms at follow-up.
