A 54-year-old male patient was admitted to hospital with new-onset dyspnea and orthopnea. Physical examination revealed a subfebrile body temperature (37.4°C), diastolic grade 3/6 murmur in the aortic area, and bilateral basilar fine rales on pulmonary auscultation. Electrocardiography (ECG) showed sinus tachycardia with a heart rate of 110 bpm. Arterial blood pressure was 100/80 mmHg. Chest radiography revealed Kerley B lines with interstitial edema and a normal cardiothoracic index. Transthoracic echocardiography was performed with a prediagnosis of infective endocarditis. In the aortic valve, a 15×6-mm oscillating mobile vegetation and severe regurgitation were observed. On transesophageal echocardiography, the bicuspid aortic valve was detected together with the previous echocardiographic findings (. ). The following laboratory test results were found: elevated white blood cell count (WBC), 18,400/μl; erythrocyte sedimentation rate, 120 mm/h, and Creactive protein (CRP), 310 mg/l. Rheumatoid factor was positive. Because of the large vegetation, aortic regurgitation, and signs and symptoms of heart failure, cardiac surgery was offered to the patient; however, he initially denied the operation and preferred conservative treatment. With a diagnosis of infective endocarditis, empirical antibiotic therapy with intravenous penicillin G (5 million units q6 h) and gentamicin (80 mg q8 h) was initiated. No bacteria grew on the blood cultures. When his medical history was further investigated, he mentioned that he was living in a rural area in which brucellosis was endemic and he used to consume nonpasteurized dairy products. Rose Bengal and Wright agglutination tests were run to rule out brucellosis. The Rose Bengal test result was positive as was the Wright test at a titer of 1/320. With the diagnosis of Brucella endocarditis, the empirical antibiotic therapy was changed to gentamicin (80 mg q8 h), doxycycline (100 mg q12 h), and rifampicin (300 mg q12 h). In the 4th day of antibiotherapy, the patient experienced severe typical angina pectoris. ECG revealed ST-segment elevation in leads V 3 –V 6. Coronary angiography was performed and it revealed total obstruction of the distal left anterior descending (LAD) segment with septic emboli. There was no other sign of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease at angiography (. ). Because the septic embolism and the size of the vegetation remained unchanged on the repeat transthoracic echocardiography, aortic valve replacement operation was performed together with LAD-to-left internal mammary artery (LIMA) bypass. Postoperatively, the aforementioned combined antibiotherapy was continued for 1 month. Under this therapy, the patient was afebrile and WBC counts and serum CRP levels were normal. The patient was discharged on oral doxycycline and rifampicin and he was instructed to use these antibiotic treatments for 6 weeks.
