A 42-year-old man was admitted to the emergency department following a large ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and, despite primary coronary intervention, he progressed towards heart failure necessitating veno arterial extra corporeal membrane oxygenation (VA-ECMO) support. VA-ECMO was discontinued 4 days later; however, he required a Levitronix extracorporeal left ventricular assist device (LVAD) to support his circulation. A gradual improvement in haemodynamic status made him eligible for transplantation, and he underwent an orthotopic heart transplant 49 days post-STEMI (the total warm and cold ischaemic time was 120 min). The donor was a 58-yearold woman who had had a subarachnoid haemorrhage following a fall, with occipital, C1 and C2 fractures. She had no known risk factors for heart disease and no history of cardiac or respiratory arrest preceding explantation. Twelve-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) on the donor was unremarkable and a transthoracic echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 50% with no regional wall motion abnormalities, valvular pathologies or septal defects. Postexplantation, there was no external evidence of any cardiac pathology and no palpable CAD. Following transplantation, despite requiring an intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) to improve haemodynamic performance during the early postoperative period, by Day 1 the patient was extubated and inotropes weaned and, by Day 2, the IABP was removed and inotropic support was discontinued, following which he remained haemodynamically stable for the next 24 h on low-dose isoprenaline (CIs of 2.5–3.0 l/min/m 2 ). Sixty-nine hours post-donor heart reperfusion, a sudden haemodynamic collapse occurred with sustained severe hypotension (CI consistently <1) despite significant escalation of inotropes and subsequent worsening metabolic acidosis. This required central VA-ECMO support. An intraoperative transoesophageal echocardiography (TOE) alluded to a possible ventricular septal defect (VSD) . Repeat TOE demonstrated an unequivocal anterior VSD. Day 4 post-VA-ECMO he was retransplanted; however, this heart failed to wean from cardiopulmonary bypass despite maximum inotropic support, and repeat ECMO was thought to be futile. The histopathology of the first donor heart showed a thrombus in the left anterior descending artery (LAD) 3 cm from the origin, extending over a length of 1 cm, in conjunction with an antero-septal infarct (mid-septal level and extending to the apex) and rupture of the ventricular septum at the mid-septal level . Microscopically, there was mild patchy atherosclerosis in the coronarythe LAD proximal to the level of the thrombus, there was a lesion suggestive of an unstable plaque. In the region of the thrombus, there was disruption of the underlying atheromatous plaque. These findings confirmed an acute myocardial infarction (MI) resulting from plaque rupture of an unstable plaque in the LAD with resultant thrombotic occlusion. Examination of the specimen confirmed that, macroscopically, the atherosclerosis was not apparent and, therefore, could not have been detected in the donor at retrieval. report the case of a 63-year-old man who sustained a thrombotic occlusion of the right coronary artery causing a right ventricular (RV) MI and required ECMO and a RVAD. Other cases have reported cardiogenic shock as a result of embolization of fat or muscular tissue into the coronary circulation from the suture line of the left atrium . Our case demonstrates the extreme complications that can be associated with CAD in the donor heart. Exploration of the graft did not show any external features of CAD and the donor had no risks of CAD. The patient's initial clinical picture was not of a developing infarction or an established VSD. Initial postoperative ECGs showed no acute abnormalities. If an infarct had been present perioperatively, separation from cardiopulmonary bypass would have been difficult. Post-cardiopulmonary bypass TOE was unremarkable. Similarly, an infarct within 24–48 h of transplantation would disallow inotropic support to be weaned with a CI of >2.0 and, hence, a rapid postoperative recovery in the first 48 h would be unlikely. We cannot yet explain the timing of events that led to catastrophic cardiogenic shock. It is possible that the initial inotropic IABP supported the donor heart, despite a developing infarction, masking significant on-going pathology, but this is unlikely. The patient never developed chest pain; the only symptoms were those of increasing shortness of breath. Cardiac denervation may well have masked any pain associated with acute myocardial ischaemia. VSDs can complicate a severe MI with a 30-day mortality of 74%
. However, postinfarct VSDs are uncommon, with an incidence of 0.2% post-thrombolysis . VSDs typically occur within the first week of infarction, with a mean time from symptom onset of 3–5 days . In this patient, clinical deterioration was remarkablyrapid: catastrophic haemodynamic collapse with rapid onset of cardiogenic shock on Day 3 post-transplantation, within 24 h of weaning IABP and inotropic support. Therefore, the VSD must have developed within 3 days of the infarct. Clinical suggestion of an infarct, let alone a VSD, was not apparent postoperatively; therefore, an indication to perform an angiogram with a view to thrombolysis, to reduce the risk of a mechanical complication, was not evident. Although this was an anterior infarction complicated by a VSD, and thereby should have a better prognosis than inferior infarcts and VSDs, this case was further complicated by the infarct occurring on a transplanted heart, recognized to be particularly dependent upon RV performance. Therefore, the clinical course was acute in presentation associated with extensive septal infarction and severe RV dysfunction. The transplanted heart, having already been exposed to the stressors of ischaemia reperfusion and extensive infarction, was not suitable for a VSD repair. If this was attempted, biventricular support would have been inevitable. Furthermore, recovery from the infarct was unlikely because of the extensive infarct area and, therefore, long-term LVAD support was not suitable. This necessitated post-transplant ECMO support to maintain an adequate circulation and urgent retransplantation as a definitive option. The demand to transplant a marginal heart in an era of donor scarcity risks facing morbid sequelae associated with undetectable CAD. This risk is greater in countries where angiographic assessment of the donor heart is not conducted. In these centres, clinicians should be aware of such potential complications and be prepared to utilize the necessary adjuncts to salvage a transplanted heart. This case demonstrates a rare early complication associated with existing CAD in the donor heart and, to our knowledge, is the first-described postinfarct VSD in a transplanted heart; its likelihood should not be ignored.
