A 72-year old lady with type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia and a 40 pack-year history of smoking presented with new onset central chest pain and shortness of breath. Clinical examination was unremarkable and electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm with T-wave inversion in aVL only. Her Troponin I came back at 3.68 ng/ml (normal <1.5 ng/ml). Her chest pain resolved spontaneously and she resumed full exercise capacity. An echocardiogram was performed that demonstrated a smooth, well-circumscribed mass in the left ventricle with a broad base attached to the apical ventricular septum. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging further delineated this as a likely LV myxoma. On T1-weighted images, it showed the same uptake as myocardium, with slightly higher signal on T2-weighted images. There was evidence of both perfusion and delayed enhancement on post-gadolinium sequences ( –C). Coronary angiogram showed no evidence of coronary artery stenoses and no contrast enhancement of the tumour. A multidisciplinary team of cardiac radiologists, cardiologists and cardiac surgeons conferred about the clinical presentation and multimodal imaging. The absence of apical dyskinesia and only modest cardiac enzyme rise, along with atypical radiological features ruled out a thrombus. The other features were not conclusive of any one type of tumour and as it was felt that this may have been responsible for her presenting symptoms. Surgical excision for diagnostic and therapeutic indications was therefore offered to the patient, which she accepted. Surgical approach was performed via a median sternotomywas established using aortic arterial cannulation and bicaval venous cannulation. Cold blood cardioplegia was delivered antegradely through the root and the left ventricle was accessed using a transseptal approach through the right atrium, extending onto the left atrial roof to visualize the ventricle through the mitral valve. All four chambers of the heart were inspected. The myxoma was identified as a gelatinous mass adherent to the infero-basal left ventricle with no involvement of the mitral valve or apparatus. This was excised without endoscopic adjuncts and the patient weaned off bypass without support. The postoperative period was unremarkable. Histological examination identified the tumour as having a papillary structure consisting of fronds of mucoid material covered by endothelium , consistent with tissue from a papillary fibroelastoma.
A 53-year old male smoker with a history of hypercholesterolaemia and peripheral vascular disease presented with an inferior STelevation myocardial infarction. Coronary angiography showed normal coronary arteries and he was treated with medical management. Six years later, he presented with atypical chest pain with old Q-waves inferiorly, but no troponin rise. An echocardiogram wasperformed that showed a mobile mass attached to the inferior LV wall with a pedunculated stalk. The LV ejection fraction was noted to be good. Further imaging with cardiac MR described a mobile, 1.1 cm mass with a thin stalk connecting it to the apical-inferior wall and septum. There was no perfusion and no delayed post-gadolinium enhancement within the lesion ( –F). In addition, the whole inferior wall demonstrated delayed enhancement consistent with previous infarct and scar tissue. A diagnosis of an LV thrombus was made and conservative management with anticoagulation and serial imaging was elected. Due to patient non-compliance, there was a delay in starting warfarin anticoagulation and the international normalized ratio then also remained sub-therapeutic for several weeks. Once properly anticoagulated, however, the mass showed no substantial change at interval 3-and 6-month transthoracic echocardiography with possibly some reduction in pedunculation. The patient suffered no embolic phenomena, and remained keen on nonsurgical management.
