A 39-year-old man presented to the emergency department after a witnessed collapse and cardiac arrest. He was Caucasian, with a body mass index of 28.8 kg/m 2 , and a smoker. His past medical history consisted of depression and a single episode of deep venous thrombosis of the calf. There was no personal or family history of cardiac disease, he was neither diabetic nor hypertensive, and had a normal serum cholesterol level (2.5 mmol/l). Although he initially denied illicit drug use, a third party confirmed he had smoked " Black Mamba " within three hours of the onset of his symptoms. He initially reported left-sided chest pain, associated with dizziness and dyspnoea. Minutes later, the patient collapsed, cardiac output became undetectable, and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation was commenced. Out-of-hospital cardiac monitoring revealed ventricular fibrillation, and spontaneous circulation was restored after delivery of four direct current shocks. During transfer to hospital, ECG demonstrated ST elevation in antero-lateral leads , and the patient was admitted directly for cardiac catheterisation. The serum Troponin-T level was recorded at 4398 ng/L (normal range <14 ng/L on high-sensitivity Troponin-T), confirming the diagnosis of myocardial infarction. Coronary angiography revealed an ostial occlusion to the left anterior descending artery, which was treated by thrombectomy. There was some residual stenosis, which could have represented mild coronary artery disease or persistent vasospasm. As it did not respond to nitrate treatment, a Xience drug-eluting stent (Abbott) was placed. The left circumflex and right coronary arteries were angiographically normal, and there were only mild irregularities in an intermediate artery. The patient experienced no further symptoms of cardiac ischemia, and the ST elevation resolved after percutaneous coronary intervention. He was discharged with anti-platelet therapy (ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily for one year, aspirin 75 mg daily for life) and secondary prevention for coronary artery disease (atorvastatin 80 mg daily, bisoprolol 2.5 mg daily and perindopril 2 mg daily). Urine toxicology tested positive for opiates and benzodiazepines (both given on admission to hospital), and also for adamantyl-group synthetic cannabinoids. Other drugs of abuse were not detected, including cannabis, cocaine and amphetamines. Drugs were assayed by liquid tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS), and confirmed by time-of-flight mass spectroscopy.
