A 41-year-old apparently healthy white woman suffering from palpitations and New York Heart Association class III dyspnea for 12 months was referred to the Department of Cardiology. She had no history of Kawasaki disease, other connective tissue diseases, or chest trauma. Physical examination results were normal. No abnormalities were observed in blood tests and serum protein electrophoresis. The test for antinuclear antibodies was negative. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) revealed a huge tumor (100×90×80 mm) on the right cardiacCoronary artery aneurysm (CAA) is generally defined as coronary dilatation that exceeds the diameter of normal adjacent segments or the diameter of the patient's largest coronary vessel by 1.5 times. The prime cause of CAAs is atherosclerosis, and the most commonly affected artery is the right coronary artery. CAAs are quite commonly detected during X-ray coronary angiography. However, Coronary artery aneurysm (CAA) is generally defined as coronary dilatation that exceeds the diameter of normal adjacent segments or the diameter of the patient's largest coronary vessel by 1.5 times. The prime cause of CAAs is atherosclerosis, and the most commonly affected artery is the right coronary artery. CAAs are quite commonly detected during X-ray coronary angiography. However, giant CAAs, especially with the diameter exceeding 100 mm, are extremely rare. The treatment method of choice of giant CAAs is the excision of aneurysm with coronary artery bypass grafting. We present a case of a 41-year-old apparently healthy woman with a giant right CAA. This was detected by noninvasive methods, including magnetic resonance coronary angiography, and its maximum diameter exceeded 100 mm. In emergency, the aneurysmal sac was excised and the aortocoronary saphenous vein graft was performed. We also present a review of the published studies of giant CAAs with the diameter exceeding 100 mm. border, compressing the right atrium, and the superior and inferior vena cava. Blood flow into the tumor cavity and a connection with RCA were detected, which suggested the diagnosis of RCA aneurysm. Sixty-four slice coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) exposed a large pericardial mass  (102×85×82 mm) connected with RCA and strongly compressing the right atrium, and the superior and inferior vena cava. Other coronary arteries were normal, and there was no occlusive coronary artery disease. To complete diagnosis, cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging and magnetic resonance coronary angiography (MRCA) were performed ( AneurySM of right coronAry Artery Ann Saudi Med 2014 July-August www.annsaudimed.net femoral cardiopulmonary bypass cannulation-arterial (MEDTRONIC EOPA 77422) and atriocaval (Edwards Life sciences VEFM020)-were used. Following aortic cross-clamping, cold cardioplegic arrest was obtained and the giant aneurysm was possible to open . The aneurysmal sac was excluded by the closure of the proximal orifice with the 4-0 prolene and ligation of the artery distal to the aneurysm. There was no thrombus inside the aneurysm. Subsequently the aortocoronary saphenous vein graft was performed. Histologically, the aneurysmal wall revealed atherosclerotic plaques. Postoperative transthoracic echocardiography showed the preserved ejection fraction of the left ventricle (EF=63%) and no segmental abnormalities of myocardial contractility. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged on the sixth postoperative day. Eighteen months after the procedure, the patient was asymptomatic and worked full time.
