A 67-year old woman presented to the emergency room with chest pain, severe dyspnoea and general weakness that had begun 2 h prior to admission. She had had mild fatigue for 7 days associated with the onset of mild neck and back pain. Her past medical history was unremarkable, with no hypertension and no medication, but active smoker, with a negative family history of coronary artery disease. Because of rapid respiratory and haemodynamic deterioration, with tachypnoea, anuria, increasing oxygen demand and a drop in blood pressure requiring inotropic support, the patient was immediately transferred to the intensive care unit. A chest X-ray showed severe bilateral pulmonary oedema; the patient was intubated and immediately begun on mechanical ventilation. Laboratory tests revealed a CK-myocardial band of 20 U/l and a positive troponin-T (0.798 ng/ml). Electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed sinus rhythm and no ST-segment changes in any lead. Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) revealed severe MR due to APM rupture. After insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump, emergency coronary angiography was performed and revealed no stenotic lesions. We decided to perform emergency mitral valve surgery. Intraoperative transoesophageal echocardiography (TEE) demonstrated massive MR with flail in Segments A1, A2, anterolateral commissure and P1 secondary to complete rupture of the APM but no wall-motion abnormalities ( and Videos 1 and 2). There was complete rupture of the APM . After complete resection of the anterior leaflet and partial resection of the posterior leaflet, standard MVR was performed. Pathological examination showed coagulation necrosis of the papillary muscle surrounded by inflammatory cell infiltration. On postoperative single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/computed tomography (CT) scan coronary angiography fusion images using thallium-201 ( 201 Tl) and iodine-123 beta-methyl-p-iodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid ( 123 I-BMIPP), there was less uptake of 123 I-BMIPP than of 201 Tl in the first obtuse marginal (OM-1) segment, corresponding to the OM-1 artery . This indicated the presence of myocardial metabolic dysfunction; i.e. myocardial ischaemia, in this area. To identify the cause of an APM rupture without coronary artery stenosis, we performed a coronary vasomotion test with intracoronary acetylcholine (ACH) provocation. Initial coronary angiography demonstrated no stenotic lesions in either coronary artery ( severe vasoconstriction at the first diagonal, OM-1 and second obtuse marginal (OM-2) and posterolateral branches, with impaired coronary blood flow distal to these stenoses (90–99%) . Although the patient was asymptomatic, ECG showed signs of ST-segment depression in leads V5 and V6. Therefore, nitroglycerine 0.4 mg was injected into the left coronary artery, and after 2 min the stenotic lesions disappeared . When ACH 50 μg was infused into the right coronary artery, similar severe vasoconstriction (90–99%) occurred at the site of the AV node artery. The patient was extubated on postoperative day 3 and discharged from the intensive care unit in good clinical condition, without neurological deficit, on Day 5. Postoperative TTE showed no MR and no wall-motion abnormalities.
catastrophic complications. The preferred treatment for papillary muscle rupture is to replace the mitral valve with a prosthetic valve. The alternative to MVR is mitral valve repair, which consists of reattaching the ruptured papillary muscle head with or without ring annuloplasty. In cases of ruptured chordae tendineae, repair is usually feasible and is preferred over MVR. Although mitral valve repair can lead to a good outcome, it is more technically challenging than replacement, especially where there is friable infarcted tissue after complete papillary muscle rupture. In contrast, since MVR is technically straightforward and reproducible, we consider MVR to be the treatment of choice for APM rupture, but surgical strategy will be based on a patient's overall condition.
