A 3-month-old, previously healthy male infant developed an upper respiratory tract infection 10 days prior to hospitalization. The patient had a fever and was managed with antibiotics, without good response. He presented to our hospital with a cough and diarrhea. Chest computed tomography demonstrated thickened pulmonary vascular texture and inflammation-like changes in multiple lobes and segments, leading to an initial diagnosis of acute bronchopneumonia. However, the possibility of incomplete KD was considered based on the presence of a difficult-tocontrol fever lasting more than 5 days, cervical lymphadenopathy [1.5 cm in diameter, and the presence of erythema in the hands. We planned to evaluate cardiologic findings to confirm the diagnosis of incomplete KD. On hospital day 1, laboratory testing revealed a sodium level of 132 mmol/L and a C-reactive protein level of 180 mg/L. All laboratory findings are presented in . The patient was treated with intravenous immunoglobulin, aspirin, and latamoxef for inflammation; yeast capsules to prevent antibiotic-associated diarrhea; and intravenous saline to correct the hyponatremia. On day 3, the patient had a convulsion and was found to have a sodium level of 121.2 mmol/L. With continuous replenishment of sodium, the convulsions resolved by the time of hospital discharge. Although the C-reactive protein level decreased to 59.5 mg/L on day 3, it began rising again and continued to increase until day 15, when it reached 156 mg/L. On this day, the platelet count recovered to 492,000/mm 3 , after initially decreasing from 494,000 to 305,000/mm 3. On day 10, echocardiography revealed a healthy heart, with the right coronary artery measuring 1.8 mm in diameter and the left measuring 1.8 mm; there was no aneurysm. However, on day 15, coronary aneurysms were present on repeat echocardiography. The left coronary artery now measured 4.1 mm, the circumflex branch measured 1.5 mm, and the anterior descending branch measured 3.4 mm, with a fusiform aneurysm measuring 4.3 mm. The right coronary artery measured 4.6 mm, with a fusiform aneurysm measuring 5.4 mm. Intravenous immunoglobulin treatment was repeated for a 2-day course. On day 17, the patient finally achieved a normal bodytemperature, and the white blood cell count returned to normal. On day 19, the C-reactive protein level decreased to 86.3 mg/L, but rose again by day 23–132 mg/L. The patient was treated with methylprednisolone for 3 days. Echocardiography findings of coronary artery aneurysm remained stable, and the results of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) testing were negative. On day 29, the patient experienced desquamation of the fingers. Echocardiography showed that the coronary sinus was dilated to 7 mm and contained a thrombus measuring 5.4 9 5.2 mm (Figs. 1, 2). The patient was treated with intravenous low molecular weight heparin sodium for six consecutive days. On day 34, echocardiography showed a dilated coronary sinus without thrombus . The patient was treated with 5 mg of methylprednisolone for
