A 65-year old, non-hypertensive, non-diabetic female patient came to our hospital with complaints of pain in the precordial region for the previous 6 h. On arrival, she was conscious, afebrile and mildly dyspnoeic. Her pulse was 100 beats per min and regular, blood pressure 148/106 mmHg, respiratory rate 20 per min, with 97% oxygenation on pulse oxymetry and without any other clinical findings. The electrocardiogram revealed significant ST elevation in the V1–V4 chest leads and in the aVF and III leads. 2D echocardiography showed hypokinesia of mid, distal intraventricular septum with an akinetic apex and an ejection fraction of 35%. She was diagnosed as a case of acute anterolateral ST elevation myocardial infarction. On coronary angiography, the proximal left anterior descending (LAD) artery was heavily calcified and atherosclerotic with critical stenosis, and the distal artery totally occluded. After due consent, primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was started. Opening of the LAD lesion was attempted using a 0.014 coronary guide wire, and it was dilated using 2 × 10 mm sprinter balloons. During the procedure, in the mid-LAD, the guide wire became stuck and failed to move, and further manoeuvres failed. Subsequently, we made several attempts to pull out the guide wire with moderate force using simple manoeuvres (traction, pull and push, balloon reinflation and deflation, and back-and-forth vibration), but the guide wire could not be removed. Check angiography showed part of the guide wire stuck in the mid-LAD; the wire was also broken at the femoral insertion site ( and B). The procedure was abandoned and, because of need, immediate coronary artery bypass graft surgery was planned. Under general anaesthesia, after opening the pericardium by dissection, the stuck guide wire was found in the mid-LAD. Aortic and right atrial purse string sutures were placed for an anticipated need of extracorporeal circulation. After partial heparinization, snares of 5-0 prolene were placed proximal to the dissection site. Arteriotomy at the dissected region of the LAD was done and wire of 90 cm in length pulled out and retrieved. The LAD was then repaired with pledgeted 6-0 prolene suture. During this procedure, the patient remained haemodynamically stable. Confirmation by transoesophageal echocardiography (TEE) was also done for this procedure. Immediately, by a 'beating heart' procedure, under octopus device stabilization, reverse saphenous venous grafting to the LAD was done distal to this repair ( and B). The left internal thoracic artery was not used because of diffuse disease and calcification. The tip (2.5 cm) was full thickness and the remainder of the wire was uncoiled and stretched out. The patient's postoperative period was smooth and she remained asymptomatic without any complication on follow-up at 3 months.forward regarding their optimal management. The first cases of broken guide wires were reported in 1980 when the main treatment option was surgery. Despite technical improvements and production of more flexible and high-quality guide wires, the incidence of this complication is nearly the same or even increasing because of more complex cases, such as totally occluded vessels, branch and bifurcation lesions and even left main lesions requiring percutaneous interventions. Complex lesions, wire wedging into distal or winding vessels, wire cutting by means of the atherectomy catheter and structural failure are the main causes of this complication. Some conditions also increase the risk of guide wire rupture, such as hydrophilic wires, attempts in calcified and tortuous vessels and jailed guide wire between overlapping parts of stents . There are also occasions when guide wires are reused because of lack of resources, but they should be looked at very cautiously for any change in their physical characteristics for avoidance of such complication. The incidence rate of such complications during the application of coronary artery interventional procedures ranges from 0.2 to 0.8% as reported . Retained hardware within a coronary vessel can serve as a nidus for endothelial injury and further platelet deposition, putting the vessel at risk. Retained wire fragments in the coronary vessels can cause complications, such as emboli, thrombosis, dissection and rupture. Once the diagnosis of entrapment complication has been established, treatment options for this depend on the site of entrapment and possible sequelae from the foreign body. Available options are gentle percutaneous interventional techniques, conservative management and surgery . Great efforts should be made to remove the entrapped guide wire percutaneously at first. Snare loop wire or its modification is the commonest technique used, whereas other techniques mentioned include the use of hook-tip catheters or basket retrievers. Vigorous efforts for percutaneous removal can also create further risk to the already diseased vessel endothelium. Such techniques are not only complex, but also sometimes unsuccessful. Conservative management is appropriate only when risks of intervention outweigh its benefits in some selected patients only. Small fragments of wire may be left within the coronary artery without adverse sequelae, especially if they are contained within small, chronically occluded coronary vessels or within a distal part of thevessel. Scientifically, any foreign body entrapped in the coronary artery, especially in the left system, should be removed as rapidly as possible to avoid complications. Therefore, immediate removal of the wire or catheter with downstream grafting of the coronary artery is advocated . Considering the fact that the most ideal management option for remnant guide wires is their urgent removal, still most logical and straightforward is immediate surgical removal with coronary artery bypass surgery. Identifying the full extent of a fractured guide wire can be difficult fluoroscopically but it is very important. So, surgical intervention should also be accompanied by TEE to evaluate the distal extent of the wire or catheter. Surgical intervention should ensure that there is no foreign body remaining that could serve as a nidus for complication, with focus on adequate revascularization of the affected coronary vessels . Also, in the event of failed interventional retrieval and persistent signs of ischaemia, patients should be urgently referred for surgery. Surgical extraction is also strongly recommended in cases of protrusion of the guide wire into the aorta, as in our case. In our case, the guide wire probably got stuck in the calcified plaque and, when force was used, it ruptured the plaque, and dissected and extruded out of the vessel. Later, pulling back the wire resulted in unravelling of a portion inside, with its breakage at the femoral site. Percutaneous intervention for complex and bifurcation lesions has this risk especially, thus in every complex case, it will be sensible to inform the patient fully regarding the risk of the procedure with full surgical backup or easy reach for surgical services. The success of surgery in this circumstance is determined primarily by the clinical status of the patient before the operation. The literature on surgical intervention for entrapped hardware is limited, and the commonly proposed therapy is obligatory removal of the foreign body from the coronary circulation .
