A 78-year-old patient suff ering from a left-sided internal malleolar venous ulcer (C 6s E p,s A s,d P r2,3,5,16 according to CEAP-classifi cation) was scheduled for two UGFS treatment sessions. His medical history was relevant for bilateral varicose vein surgery more than 50 years ago (details unknown), and two episodes of DVT of the left leg (1 st : following a car accident 57 years ago; 2 nd : idiopathic two years ago), both treated with oral vitamin-K-antagonist for 3 months. He was otherwise healthy without any regular medication. Colour-coded Duplex-ultrasound (CCDU) of the left leg demonstrated patent deep veins with valvular incompetence only in one medial calf vein, a patent great saphenous vein (GSV) with axial refl ux up to mid-calf and several incompetent GSV tributary veins close to the ulcer. During the fi rst session, periulcerous tributaries were treated by injecting 3 ml of 1 %-polidocanol foam (Aethoxysklerol, Kreussler Pharma, Wiesbaden, Germany) generated following the Tessari-method (air-sclerosant-ratio 4 / 1) and distal left GSV was treated by injecting 4 ml of 3 %-polidocanol foam with the patient in supine position and slight left leg elevation. Following this procedure, the patient remained in supine position without straining for 10 minutes. He received medical compressive stockings class-II (23 – 32mmHg, up to mid-thigh) and a 5-day course of prophylactic antithrombotic treatment (Fondaparinux 2.5 mg sc), due to the history of DVT. The following month, CCDU showed occlusion of treated vein segments, with residual GSV refl ux at thigh and knee level. Using the samethe end of the treatment, the patient, still in supine position, complained of typical oppressive chest pain radiating to the left arm. He was haemodynamically stable (blood pressure 144 / 88 mmHg; pulse rate 78 / min; normal transcutaneous oxygen saturation at room air), and electrocardiogram (ECG) showed no ST elevation. The patient was transferred to the emergency room, where he received intravenous Aspirin (500 mg). Chest pain completely disappeared within 15 minutes. Relevant laboratory exams showed transient high-sensitivity troponin-T increase (10ng / L on emergency arrival, 33ng / L after 2 hours, and 23 ng / L after 6 hours; normal values < 14ng / L), without creatinine-kinase elevation (maximal value measured was 86U / l; normal values: 25 – 190U / l). A non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) was diagnosed with an intermediate-risk of in-hospital mortality according to the GRACE-score . Transthoracic echocardiography, performed the following day, demonstrated a large patent foramen ovale (PFO) with an interatrial septum aneurysm. Cardiac positron emission tomography showed no sign of cardiac ischemia; therefore, no coronary angiography was performed. The patient was discharged on Aspirin 100 mg and Fondaparinux 2.5 mg sc daily. At 3-months follow-up visit, leg ulcer was completely healed with occlusion of the treated veins, and the patient did not report any recurrent chest symptoms.
