A 57-year-old man with hypertension was transported to our hospital one hour after an iron shelf dropped onto his chest while he was working in a factory. The patient was healthy before the accident but complained of chest pain upon arrival to our hospital. On physical examination, the patient's vital signs were stable. Ecchymosis was present over the anterior chest wall. Chest X-rays were normal. An electrocardiogram (ECG) showed a sinus rhythm with a convex ST segment elevation on the whole leads without reciprocal change . Laboratory testing revealed positive cardiac markers with a creatine phosphokinase/creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme level of 825/187 U/L and troponin T level of 1.62 ng/mL. Chest computed tomography showed a fracture of the distal portion of the sternal body with minimal retrosternal hemorrhagic fluid collection and no aortic dissection. The heart function was also evaluated; transthoracic echocardiography revealed normally sized cardiac chamber dimensions with preservation of the left ventricle systolic function (ejection fraction=56%), akinesia of the left ventricular apex, and no valvular dysfunction or pericardial effusion ( , B). Coronary angiography revealed total occlusion of the distal portion of the LAD . The left circumflex coronary artery and right coronary artery were normal. We attempted to resolve the total occlusion of the LAD, however, the guidewire repeatedly entered the false lumen. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) showed the occlusion site of the LAD consisting of heterogenous echogenicity. The lesions made it difficult to distinguish the blood and intima . When we injected the contrast dye into the distal segment of the LAD using a micro-catheter, we noticed that the lesion was the true lumen through the false lumen . Additionally, IVUS showed that the IVUS catheter was located in the false lumen ( , d). The patient remained hemodynamically stable at that time without chest pain or dyspnea. Therefore, we decided not to perform percutaneous coronary intervention and instead commenced conservative treatment. Follow-up transthoracic echocardiography showed findings similar to those of the previous examination without pericarweeks later, the patient was discharged without chest pain. At the time of discharge, the ECG showed deep T wave inversion findings on the precordial leads and limb leads , which was likely due to the dead myocardium of the left ventricular apex. Twenty days later, the patient was readmitted with pleuritic chest pain and a fever. His body temperature was 38. The chest X-rays showed bilateral pleural effusion and mild cardiomegaly. The ECG showed a sinus tachycardia with Twave inversion in the precordial leads . Laboratory testing revealed mild leukocytosis (white blood cell count = 13.1×10 9 /L) and an elevated C-reactive protein level (20.89 mg/dL) with normal cardiac markers with a creatine phosphokinase/creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme level of 27/0.98 U/ L and troponin T level of 0.048 ng/mL. Additionally, laboratory testing revealed a normal eosinophil count (209.6×10 6 / L) and normal protein fraction. However, we did not check the auto-myosin Ab and auto-actin Ab levels. Transthoracic echocardiography showed finding similar to those of the previous examination, however, a moderate amount of pericardial effusion had newly developed . Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) were administered for 2 weeks. The patient steadily improved until the day of discharge. The pericardial effusion resolved by the time of the follow-up echocardiographic examination. Six months after the accident, we performed follow-up coronary angiography. Coronary angiography revealed recanalization of the distal portion of the LAD that had previously appeared to be a total occlusion . Ten months after the accident, the patient remained asymptomatic.
