A 30-year-old lady who was known to have afibrinogenemia since birth, presented with acute anterior myocardial infarction. She had chest pain for 10 h before admission. Her family history was significant because one of her brothers died in childhood because of excessive bleeding after circumcision, but she did not have any risk factors for coronary artery disease. Physical examination revealed no fever, pulse rate 100 beatsÁmin À1 , and blood pressure 110/70 mmÁHg. Cardiovascular examination was normal, but her electrocardiogram showed anterior ST-elevation myocardial infarction (MI). Her troponin I was elevated towere normal, but the fibrinogen level was <5 mgÁdL À1 , prothrombin time >50 s, (control: 13 s), activated partial thromboplastin time >240 s, (control: 32 s), and international normalized ratio >7. Transthoracic echocardiography estimated her left ventricular ejection fraction as 52% with hypokinesia of the anterolateral wall. It has been recommended that antiplatelets can be used safely in these patients; therefore, we managed her with dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin plus clopidogrel) and atorvastatin, but her chest pain did not subside and we transferred her to catheterization laboratory. After replacement therapy with cryoprecipitate and normalization of her international normalized ratio, urgent coronary angiography revealed a significant proximal left anterior descending thrombotic lesion up to 90%; the other coronaries were normal. Due to anterior MI and severe chest pain, we decided to perform angioplasty on the left anterior descending artery, and the patient was given eptifibatide (two 180-mgÁkg À1 bolus doses 10 minCorresponding author: Atoosheh Rohani, Mashhad Cardiac Research Center, School of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Email: rohania@mums.ac.ir apart combined with a continuous infusion of 2.0 mgÁkg À1 Ámin À1 ) and heparin in the catheterization laboratory. The proximal left anterior descending artery occlusion was crossed with a floppy wire. Angioplasty was performed with a bare metal stent (Medtronic) at 16 atm and yielded a satisfactory result and TIMI3 flow. The patient's symptoms resolved completely. We used a bare metal stent because of the shorter duration of antiplatelet therapy and faster endothelialization, we also used eptifibatide for management of this patient because we could not give her appropriate amounts of heparin to reduce the risk of acute cardiac ischemic events. We discharged her in a stable condition after 5 days on aspirin 80 mg and clopidogrel 75 mg for one month. After one year, she was admitted again with unstable angina and chest discomfort, and we performed another angiography; 50% in-stent restenosis was seen, and we continued medical treatment with dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin plus clopidogrel), atorvastatin, and nitrates, and her chest pain subsided. Two years after the primary event, she was alive, on aspirin and metolazone, and in a stable clinical condition.
