A 75-year-old female, with a history of type-2 diabetes, hypercholesterolemia and hypertension, was admitted to our hospital because of typical chest pain on effort over one month. Cardiac examination and baseline electrocardiography were normal. Echocardiography revealed no hypokinesis of any ventricular walls, with an overall estimated ejection fraction of 65%. Laboratory tests did not show any significant alterations of cardiac biomarkers. The GRACE and TIMI risk scores of this patient were 96 and 3, respectively; she was diagnosed with acute coronary syndrome at low to intermediate risk of an adverse cardiac event. An initially optimal medical therapy was implemented. Meanwhile, since a delayed invasive approach was reasonable for a patient not at high risk, we recommended delayed invasive angiography; 6 however, the patient preferred conservative treatment. As multislice cardiac computed tomography (MSCT) could provide direct noninvasive visualization of coronary disease and the C). The distal part of the PDA crossed the apex of the left ventricle and ascended into the anterior interventricular groove as the distal and middle left anterior descending artery, which finally terminated with numerous small branches to supply the apex and most of the anterior wall of the left ventricle ( C). There was a severe calcified, intermediate lesion in the middle trunk of the PL branch . We determined that the PL branch was the culprit artery responsible for the acute coronary syndrome. Thus, we again recommended angiography with the intent to perform revascularization. Finally, the patient consented to our suggestion on the seventh day of admission. Coronary angiography confirmed the MSCT findings; moreover, the PL lesion seemed more significant than when identified by cardiac MSCT . Intravascular ultrasound subsequently showed a significant stenosis caused by mixed plaques in the
). Successful percutaneous coronary intervention in that segment was performed (3.0 × 18 mm Promus stent, Boston Scientific). The stent was post-dilated with a high-pressure balloon (3.0 × 14 mm Quantum Maverick Balloon, Boston Scientific). Angiography showed the final result . After discharge, the patient was free of symptoms and 1-year follow-up coronary angiography showed no restenosis in the stent . Discussion A single coronary artery (SCA) is a rare coronary artery anomaly, particularly in the absence of structural heart disease.1-5 According to the modified Lipton's classification of SCA, Yamanaka reported that the incidence of the R-I subtype was 0.0008% in a large series of 126,595 patients undergoing coronary angiography. 2 The case we presented was classified as Lipton R-I subtype: 2-3 the RCA supplied the entire heart, initially following the normal course of the RCA, after which the PDA proceeded as the distal and middle left anterior descending artery, while the PL branch proceeded as the left circumflex artery and the proximal left anterior descending artery. To the best of our knowledge, this kind of anomaly has never been reported previously. In general, the most convenient examination for a suspected coronary anomaly is exercise stress testing; however, this test can be negative or conflicting. 5,7 Cardiac MSCT can provide 3-dimensional images to identify the characteristics of coronary anomalies and coronary disease; 8-10 moreover, it may be useful for identifying the culprit artery and guiding the intervention strategy in such patients. 11 Coronary angiography is regarded as the standard method for the detection of coronary artery anomalies. 5 However, if it fails to visualize the origin or course of a coronary anomaly, cardiac MSCT may be useful for the better identification of the coronary anatomy. 10 Finally, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging can also provide 3-dimensional images; however, it is not universally available for economic and technical reasons. The prognosis of individuals with an isolated SCA anomaly is uncertain; the incidence of life-threatening symptoms is very low and the therapeutic approach to ischemic symptoms is similar to that in the usual patient with ischemic heart disease. 7-8 As there are no established treatment guidelines, revascularization would be considered only in those patients with significant atherosclerotic changes and documented ischemia. There are several probable mechanisms of myocardial ischemia in SCA. 5,12-13 Significant stenosis of the PL branch caused by atherosclerotic plaque was the mechanism of ischemia in this case. A reasonable inference was the existence of multiple coronary risk factors; in addition, the in
