A 51-year old man was admitted to our institution for evaluation of a sudden onset of chest pain subsequently diagnosed as non-ST elevation myocardial infarction. The patient immediately underwent a coronary angiography, which showed severe stenosis of the right coronary artery associated with a huge degenerative aneurysm of the left circumflex coronary artery. The echocardiography showed a good biventricular function without any regional wall motion abnormalities or valvular pathologies. A CT scan performed 2 days later confirmed the diagnosis showing a saccular aneurysm of 20 mm of diameter. The patient was electively operated 7 days after the myocardial ischaemic event. After a full median sternotomy, the pericardium was longitudinally opened and the heart was cannulated in standard fashion. The aneurysm was seated on the middle portion of the free wall of the left ventricle, arising from the atrioventricular groove . After the initial exposition of the circumflex groove, it was deemed hazardous to isolate the aneurysm without circulatory support so the extracorporeal circulation (ECC) was started before performing any dangerous manoeuvres. On ECC, the aneurysm was gently dissected free until its origin on the coronary artery and two vessel loops were placed around the circumflex artery to identify the beginning and end of the normal coronary wall . The aorta was cross-clamped and the heart was arrested using an anterograde cool blood cardioplegia. The circumflex artery was cross-clamped on both sides, 1 cm away from origin of the coronary dilatation. The aneurysm was longitudinally opened: the surgical inspection demonstrates the atherosclerotic aetiopathology without any plaque ruptures , confirmed by the anatopathological analysis . Once normal tissue limits were clearly recognized from inside, the aneurysm was completed resected. The circumflex artery was reconstructed by a direct end-to-end anastomosis using an 8-0 Prolene running suture. The coronary clamps were taken out ensuring the restoration of a normal circumflex coronary flow. After performing a venous coronary artery bypass (CABG) on the right coronary artery, the aortic cross-clamp was removed and the patient was weaned off the ECC. Cross-clamping and ECC times were 68 and 111 min, respectively. The patient was transferred to the ICU without any inotropic support and was promptly extubated after 4 h. He was discharged from hospital on postoperative day 8. At 6-month follow-up, the patient was asymptomatic and the CT scan performed 30 days after the surgery showed a harmonious course of the left circumflex artery reconstruction without any stenosis, kinking or signs of stretching .of the dilatation is rarely observed on the circumflex area and only few isolated cases have been reported about its management. Theoretically, the surgical option is preferred to the conservative management in order to prevent the development of dramatic complication as rupture and cardiac tamponade, coronary steal syndrome, myocardial ischaemia or thromboembolism . Several techniques have been proposed as surgical treatment of this pathology in sporadic reported cases. CABG with or without aneurysm ligation and pericardial or vein artery reconstruction are the surgical options commonly described in the literature . Harandi et al. presented a review on techniques published to date from all over the world . Li et al. described the surgicalmanagement of giant aneurysms in their centre concluding that the surgical operation should be adapted to each patient and to the specific cardiac anomaly . Nomura and Ohno reported on the in situ repair of a left circumflex coronary artery utilizing an interposing saphenous vein graft . All reported reconstruction techniques have the major disadvantage of using materials susceptible to subsequent stenosis. The management and surgical treatment of a rare atherosclerotic left circumflex artery is the theme of our paper. The aneurysmectomy followed by a direct end-to-end anastomosis avoiding foreign materials was the technique used in this report, never described before in the literature. This option is not always available for anatomical reasons; in particular, it can be performed only in small-sized aneurysms. The CT scan performed 30 days after the surgery and the clinical outcome of the patient at 6 months were satisfactory. The longterm success remains unclear as there might be an accelerated development of arteriosclerosis in the vessel. Nevertheless, longer follow-up is required to confirm the safety of this procedure.I read with great interest the article by Cuttone and colleagues . They reported a unique surgical treatment strategy for the management of circumflex coronary artery aneurysm (CAA) in an adult presenting with myocardial ischaemia. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is an important etiology for CAA formation in adults; however, connective tissue disorders and Kawasaki disease may lead to multiple giant CAAs in children . Although rarely encountered, the cases with CAA present with technical challenges when interventional or surgical treatment modalities are concerned. Boyer and colleagues reviewed the literature and ACC/AHA acute coronary syndrome guidelines recently and the following indications were stated as the indications for surgical revascularization in CAA: (i) CAA involving the left main coronary artery, (ii) multivessel CAD, (iii) giant CAA (the diameter of CAA exceeding the reference vessel diameter by 4 times), (iv) CAA involving bifurcation of significant sidebranch vessel and (v) other separate indications for cardiothoracic surgery unrelated to CAA . The surgical indication for this case is questionable in my opinion, unless the stenotic lesion at the right coronary artery deemed a surgical revascularization necessary. When the diameter and the location of the CAA is considered, this case seems to be manageable by percutaneous intervention with regard to the abovementioned criteria. Boyer et al. also mention that surgical revascularization is considered reasonable in cases where the PTFE-coated, bare metal or drug eluting stents cannot be delivered across the lesion . In this case, the CAA was demonstrated to be thrombus free, which would provide safer circumstances for a covered, bare or drug eluting stent delivery. The second issue to be discussed in the treatment strategy reported by Cuttone and colleagues is the choice of end-to-end anastomosis of the circumflex coronary artery. Although they decided that the suture lines at the native coronary artery walls were healthy at both ends of the artery, it is a well known fact that the traction forces with an end-to-end anastomosis may lead to restenosis of the artery as well as failure in the blood flow through the lumen in long-term follow-up. In case with such a failure and restenosis, the possible percutaneous intervention would also be dangerous due to the weakened arterial walls. The authors commented on their technique to be free of foreign materials but qualifying the saphenous vein graft as a foreign material in surgical revascularization of the coronary arteries is far from being evidence-based in such a case where a 1-to 2-cm long graft could safely be interposed after the resection of CAA. Conflict of interest: none declared.
