A 62-year-old woman was referred to our institution with complaints of progressive dyspnea on exertion and chest pain that resolved at the rest, for 2 months. Her medical history included hypertension, but she had no known coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, or smoking. On physical examination, her pulse rate was 70 beatsÁmin À1 and her blood pressure was 130/70 mm Hg. On heart auscultation, a systolic murmur was heard at the sternal border. Other systems were normal. Laboratory values included total cholesterol 214 mgÁdL À1 , low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol 130 mgÁdL À1 , troponin I 6.4 ngÁmL À1 , blood urea nitrogen mgÁdL À1 , and creatinine 0.8 mgÁdL À1. Electrocardiography revealed a loss of R-wave progression in leads V 1 through V 4 , with T-wave inversion. Chest radiography showed no signs of pulmonary hyperemia or mass lesions, and the central shadow was normal (cardiothoracic ratio ¼ 0. 40). Transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated left ventricular (LV) anteroapical hypokinesia. The patient was considered to have acute coronary syndrome with elevated cardiac enzymes, and therefore underwent cardiac catheterization. There was no atheroma or stenotic lesion on coronary angiography, but a heavy stream of contrast agent entered the LV via an apparent plexus of intramural vessels originating from the distal third of both the left and right coronary arterial systems. The angiogram revealed 3 coronary artery fistulae as well as myocardial infarction. After injection of contrast agent from the coronary arteries, an opaque smoke-likeaccumulation colored the LV and then the aorta. One fistula originated from the distal septal branch of the left anterior descending artery , another from the circumflex artery , and the third from the distal branch of the right coronary artery ; all were seen draining into the LV. A myocardial perfusion scan revealed a fixed perfusion defect in the apex. The only reason for myocardial infarction was the fistula that originated from the left anterior descending artery. The patient was treated with medication due to the initiation of symptoms with exertion, no dilatation of the cardiac chambers, and the presence of micro-fistulae. She was discharged on aspirin (300 mg daily), a beta blocker (50 mg daily), and atorvastatin (20 mg daily).
