A 49-year-old Asian woman without systemic disease was admitted to our hospital with a 2-week history of progressive exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, bilateral lower limb edema and palpitation. Previously, she had been in good health except for mildly elevated blood pressure. A physical examination revealed a blood pressure of 195/138mmHg and a rapid pulse rate of 163 beats/minute. Jugular venous distention to 18 cm was noted, a chest examination revealed bilateral lower lung crackles, and a cardiac examination showed an irregularly rapid beat without an audible murmur. No palpable mass was detected in her neck, axillary or inguinal areas. Her lower limbs showed grade II edema. An electrocardiogram showed atrial flutter. Chest radiography showed a lower left lung patch and bilateral lung infiltrationshowed one fixed round hyperechoic mass with central necrosis over the left ventricular apex, one oscillating hyperechoic nodule over the anterior mitral annulus and one irregular and heterogeneous mass bulging out from the lateral wall of the right atrium (RA) ( ; Additional file 1: Video S1). Multiple intracardiac masses were noted, and malignancy was suspected. Elevated tumor markers were noted, and her cancer antigen 125 (CA-125) level was 298.10U/ mL, cancer antigen 199 (CA-199) was 52.00U/mL and cancer antigen 153 (CA-153) was 33.80U/mL. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was arranged for differential diagnosis of multiple intracardiac masses. The image showed one 6.0 × 2.3cm lobulated mass bulging out from the lateral wall of the RA along with another two small nodules in the left ventricular apex and anterior aspect of the mitral valve. The one RA mass and two LV masses did not invade into the cardiac walls. All masses were near isointense on T1-weighted image (T1WI) and hyperintense on T2-weighted image (T2WI). We favored a multiple myxoma diagnosis . On enhanced chest computed tomography (CT), a consolidated patch with central necrosis over the lower left lung and enlarged left anterior mediastinal and right paratracheal lymph nodes were also noted . However, no definite lung nodule or mass or pulmonary embolism was detected on her chest CT scan. Despite these findings and the high tumor marker, we could not differentiate between diagnoses of multiple myxomas or multiple metastatic lung tumors. Heparinization was administered and her sinus rhythm spontaneously returned 2 days after medical treatment for heart failure and atrial flutter. Fortunately, her renal function improved and her serum LDH and uric acid levels returned to normal a few days later. We arranged a lung biopsy and echo-guided cardiac biopsies for an advanced etiologic survey. However, repeat cardiac biopsies and lung biopsies can only detect necrotic tissues or blood clots. Therefore, an openheart biopsy and tumor excision were performed 3 weeks later and showed an RA lateral wall tumor with clots over its surfaces. The tumor extended to the RA auricle at the junction among the superior vena cava (SVC), RA and inferior vena cava (IVC). RA mass pathology with a 10 times view showed myxoma (5.1 × 3.1 × 1.5cm 3 ) in which the left side was composed of muscle cells and the right side contained bland-looking, oval-shaped stellate tumor cells on a fibromyxoid background . Interestingly, no mass was found in the LV, and the thrombus disappeared after heparinization.The final diagnosis was RA myxoma and LV thrombi that resolved after heparinization. At a follow-up 1 year after surgery, our patient had returned to her daily activities, and all laboratory data, including tumor markers, had returned to normal ranges. Subsequent TTE showed adequate LV performance, and there were no further atrial flutter episodes. The consolidated patch over the lower left lung, which we favored as an arrhythmia-or myxoma-related emboli-induced lung patch, also resolved 1 month later. We suspected that initially elevated tumor markers and high uric acid and high LDH levels were related to necrotic tumor-derived tissue, decompensated heart failure with pleural effusion and renal insufficiency.
