The 46-year-old female patient was diagnosed with relapsing-remitting MS in 2005. She started on interferonbeta 1a in 2005 presenting a stable disease course in the following years. In 2010, severe idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) and one-vessel coronary artery disease were diagnosed after progressive exertional dyspnea, dizziness, marked restricted physical performance and mild stenocardia since 10 months, characterizing heart failure stage III of classification of the New York Heart Association (NYHA). Echocardiography showed right ventricular hypertrophy, moderate reduction of left ventricular and severe reduction of right ventricular function, paradox septum deviation and severe tricuspid valve insufficiency with an estimated systolic pressure of 90 mmHg . Routine echocardiography 12 months before was without abnormal results. Combined left and right heart catheterization demonstrated one-vessel coronary artery disease and severe pre-capillary pulmonary hypertension with a mean pulmonary arterial pressure of 66 mmHg (normal: 10–20 mmHg), left ventricular enddiastolic pressure of 12 mmHg (normal: 3–12 mmHg), cardiac index of 1.5 L/min/m 2 (normal: 2.5-4.0 L/min/m 2 )
* Correspondence: Tjalf.Ziemssen@uniklinikum-dresden.de 1 Center of Clinical Neuroscience, Department of Neurology, Neurological University Clinic Dresden, University Clinic Carl Gustav Carus Dresden, University of Technology Dresden, Fetscherstr, 74, 01307 Dresden, Germany Full list of author information is available at the end of the article and pulmonary vascular resistance of 14.1 wood units (normal: 0.25-1.6 wood units). The initial level of N-terminal pro-hormone of brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) presented with an increase up to 207 pmol/L (normal: ≤17 pmol/L). One week after placing a drug eluding stent in the left main coronary artery (LMCA) control echocardiography revealed an unchanged severe pulmonary hypertension with near normalized left ventricular function. Diagnosis of severe IPAH was established by exclusion of other causes of pulmonary hypertension according to the diagnostic criteria reported by Galie et al. . Compression of the LMCA by an enlarged pulmonary artery was excluded by CT-angiography of the pulmonary arteries. The patient started on the endothelin receptor antagonist ambrisentan and phosphodiesterase inhibitor tadalafil. By this treatment, the patient reported an improvement of physical performance, no more dizziness and stenocardia as well as a stable disease course corresponding to heart failure of stage NYHA II. In further evaluations, mild right ventricular hypertrophy and insufficiency, mild tricuspid valve insufficiency, decrease of right ventricular-systolic pressure in echocardiography, normal lung function, mild impairment in diffusion capacity of carbon monoxide and mild hypocapnia was detectable in the following years . In 2013, she demonstrated with significant clinical disease activity of MS with two relapses and MRI activity with three gadolinium-enhancing lesions and an Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) of 4.0. Because of positive JC-virus serology, fingolimod was selected as second line treatment. Before first dose application, extensive cardio-pulmonary testing demonstrated stable cardiovascular parameters as described above . The baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) showed a sinus
). Blood pressure (BP) in lying and tilted up position presented within normal range during the whole 6 hours monitoring . The patient did not complain any findings in the first 6 hours after fingolimod application. Cardio-pulmonary testing one week, one, three and nine months after first dose application demonstrated stable parameters in ECG, BP, echocardiography, body plethysmography and blood gas analysis . Especially relevant parameters of right ventricular and pulmonary circulation including right ventricular hypertrophy, right ventricular end-systolic pressure (RVESP), right-ventricular ejection fraction and tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) kept stable on fingolimod treatment . Detailed testing of the autonomic nervous system demonstrated no change of the efferent sympathetic regulation and left ventricular function after orthostatic stress before, 2 hours, 4 hours, and 6 hours after fingolimod first dose application as well as in three and nine month follow up . Maximal heart rate variability measured by expiration/inspiration quotient (E/I) during deep metronomic breathing showed a decrease to 1.06, which stabilized over time back to 1.09 
. There were no additional cardiac or pulmonary symptoms than known before fingolimod treatment.
