We herein report the case of a 78-year-old man who experienced AMI with concomitant ITP and who was treated successfully by non-slip element (NSE) balloon angioplasty. The patient was diagnosed with ITP two years prior to the onset of AMI, and was referred to our hospital from another hospital for treatment with insulin therapy due to worsened type 2 diabetes mellitus. The patient was also diagnosed with hypertension and dyslipidemia, and had been treated with prednisolone for ITP. An exercise stress electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed ischemic changes without any symptoms such as chest pain.tylisonitrile (MIBI) myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) showed stress induced inferolateral myocardial ischemia. Coronary angiography revealed moderate significant stenosis in the middle of left circumflex artery (LCx), although no significant stenosis was observed in the left anterior descending artery (LAD) or the right coronary artery (RCA). The patient preferred to be treated with only medical therapy instead of PCI; because he had no subjective symptoms such as chest pain and due to concerns about the risk of bleeding following antiplatelet therapy after the deployment of a coronary metallic stent. He underwent insulin therapy, antihypertensive therapy and prednisolone treatment, but he decided to discontinue all of these treatments (based on his own judgment) at 6 months before the first cardiac event. Two years later, he was admitted to the emergency room (ER) of our hospital due to chest pain, cold sweating and nausea. ST segment elevation was confirmed on the monitor leads of an ECG in an ambulance. He was still experiencing chest pain and cold sweating on his arrival at the ER, but his vital signs were all stable. His blood pressure and heart rate were 148/75 mmHg and 76 bpm, respectively. Cutaneous purpuras were observed in some places, but petechiae and mucosal bleeding were not noted. The heart and lung examinations were unremarkable and hepatosplenomegaly was not observed. The 12 leads of the ECG revealed not only an inverted T wave in the II, III and AVF leads but also ST depression in the V5 and V6 leads . The laboratory findings revealed strong positivity for heart type fatty acid-binding protein [H-FABP, 16.5 ng/mL (normal range: <6.2)], the serum analysis revealed the following findings: platelet count, 47,000/μL; WBC count, 6,900/μL; RBC count 4.34*10 6 /μL; and Hb level, 13.1 g/dL. He was diagnosed with AMI, and 200 mg aspirin was administered orally. The patient was immediately transferred to the catheterization laboratory where 5,000 IU of unfractionated heparin was administered prior to coronary angiography. The right radial artery was accessed with a 6 French sheath to avoid excessive bleeding and to obtain hemostasis easily. However, it was too torturous to engage the right subclavian artery with a diagnostic catheter for coronary artery through the right radial approach. We thus changed the approach site to the right femoral artery. Angiography revealed the total thrombotic occlusion of LCx  and a severe stenotic lesion in the proximal portion of RCA , while no significant stenosis was detected in the LAD. On the assessment of LCx as a culprit lesion, we performed PCI for LCx. After crossing the total occlusion with a 0.014 inch wire (Runthrough NS TM , Termo, Tokyo, Japan), a large thrombus was confirmed by angiography. The lesion was aspirated using a thrombectomy catheter (Export Advance TM , Medtronic, Minneapolis, USA) and achieved thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) grade III flow . Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) imaging was performed after pre-dilation with a 2.0/20 mm balloon (Tenku TM , St. Jude Medical, St. Paul, USA). NSE (Lacrosse NSE TM , Goodman, Nagoya, Japan) balloon angioplasty was performed with a 3.0/13 mm, and subsequent angiography demonstrated optimal myocardial contrast blush without dissection , which was also evaluated by IVUS. After restoration of the blood flow, the chest pain resolved. Following the procedure, the patient was transferred to the coronary care unit (CCU) and treated with aspirin (100 mg/day), bisoprolol (0.625 mg/day), azilsaltan (10 mg/day), atorvastatin (10 mg/day) and prednisolone (10 mg/day). Clopidogrel was not used in this case because of the stentless PCI approach, and unfractionated heparin was administered (10,000 IU/day) for 3 days. The peak CK and CK-MB levels were 234 U/L and 11.3 ng/mL, respectively, and the cardiac troponin T level was 0.297 ng/ mL (Normal: <0.014) at 18 hours after emergent PCI. The sheath introducer from the right radial artery was removed immediately after PCI using a device to assist hemostasis (TR Band TM , Termo). The sheath introducer was removed from the right femoral artery on the next day, and manual compression was carefully applied by hand for one hour. We noted a small ecchymosis around the puncture site of radial artery, but no hematoma or ecchymosis was noted in case of the femoral artery. No other bleeding complications occurred. Although the platelet counts were reduced to 36,000/ μL the day after PCI, they were subsequently stabilized at about 40,000/μL, resulting in no major bleeding or mucosal bleeding. The patient was monitored in the CCU for 4 days and transferred to a general ward. Tests for the IgG of Helicobacter pylori, and hepatitis C and HIV antibodies were all negative. Later, tests for the markers of antiphospholipid syndrome, such as lupus anticoagulant (LA), anticardiolipin beta-2-glycoprotein I antibodies (anti-CLβ2GP antibodies) were all negative. Since pharmacological stress 99m Tc MIBI MPI showed stress-induced myocardial ischemia in the inferior wall and a mild perfusion defect in the lateral wall 2 weeks after the procedure, we planned PCI for the severe stenotic lesion of the proximal site of right coronary artery. PCI was performed with a stentless technique in the same way, and the patient was discharged on aspirin (100 mg, daily). The platelet level on discharge was 45,000/μL without prednisolone. Angiographic follow-up at 6 months later revealed no restenosis . He was chest pain free and his recovery was uneventful and without active bleeding more than one year after intervention.
