The patient is a 19-year-old woman born with pulmonary atresia, an intact ventricular septum, normally related great arteries, severe tricuspid valve and right ventricular (RV) hypoplasia, and RV to coronary artery connections without an RV-dependent coronary circulation. At two days of age, a 5 mm left modified Blalock-Taussig shunt was performed. Four months later, she underwent surgical atrial septectomy after an unsuccessful attempt at balloon septostomy for atrial septal restriction. At three years of age, an intracardiac lateral tunnel Fontan procedure was performed, including a bidirectional Glenn anastomosis and left pulmonary artery augmentation due to stenosis at the site of the shunt. Pulmonary valve atresia was confirmed when the main pulmonary artery was divided and oversewn. The patient did well on chronic aspirin therapy until the day of admission, when she developed substernal chest pressure at rest. She presented to a local emergency department where inferior ST-segment elevation was noted on her electrocardiogram. Heparin, aspirin, and clopidogrel were initiated, and she was transferred to our institution. Emergent left heart catheterization revealed an ectatic left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery with a fistula to the RV apex, a small but normal left circumflex artery, a discrete filling defect in the right coronary artery (RCA), and no RV to coronary connections other than the LAD fistula . Thrombectomy and balloon angioplasty were performed with restoration of a normal RCA lumen. She had normal hemoglobin, platelets, prothrombin time, renal function, and an initial negative troponin I that rose to 25 ng/dL (normal <0.01 ng/dL) after catheterization. Her oxygenation was 96% on room air, and she was normotensive. She had no evidence of heart failure and a peripheral vascular examination was normal.She did well after catheterization, without heart failure or arrhythmias. A lower extremity venous ultrasound failed to show any deep vein thrombosis. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging showed evidence of prior infarction in the LAD territory, an acute infarction in the RCA territory, a Fontan baffle leak, drainage of the coronary sinus to the morphologic right atrium on the pulmonary venous side of the Fontan baffle, left subclavian vein occlusion with left arm veins draining to the left pulmonary vein via collaterals, and a fistula between the LAD and the RV . Transesophageal echocardiography did not reveal any evidence of intracardiac thrombus. A bubble study with saline injection in a left arm vein was strongly positive for right to left shunting. A workup for thrombophilic disorders was unrevealing, including normal prothrombin, partial thromboplastin, thrombin time, fibrinogen level, protein C and S function, antithrombin function; no factor V Leiden, prothrombin, or methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) mutations; and no evidence of anticardiolipin or b-2 glycoprotein antibodies. She was discharged on warfarin and aspirin and remained free from further events. An exercise stress test revealed reduced exercise capacity, no arrhythmias, and reduction in the arterial oxygen saturation to 88%. Approximately 18 months after the MI, she underwent repeat cardiac catheterization, at which time the Fontan circulation and RV to LAD connection were evaluated more closely. During access, it was confirmed that there was occlusion of the right and left femoral and left subclavian veins, and the left arm circulation returned to the heart via venous collaterals. There was a complex, medium-sized leak in the mid-anterior portion of the baffle, with right to left shunting of contrast. This was closed with a 6-mm Amplatzer vascular plug II device (St Jude Medical, Minneapolis, Minnesota). There was a trivial amount of antegrade flow through the tricuspid valve. The LAD to RV fistula was nonrestrictive, and although the LAD was uniformly dilated, there was a relatively small amount of flow into the RV. The only outflow from the RV was the fistula itself, and there was retrograde systolic flow in the LAD. After discussion, it was elected not to attempt device closure of the fistula.
