A 27-year-old man initially presented at the end of September, 2014, to the Second Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, China, with intermittent blunt chest pain for 9 days. He had a midnight and exertional chest pain radiating to the bilateral shoulders as well as the interscapular regions, which relieved spontaneously within 10 minutes. His cardiovascular history [including coronary artery disease (CAD), diabetes, hypertension and cerebrovascular accident (CVA)] was unremarkable . He denied having a family history of premature CAD and hyperlipidemia. He had a history of smoking (20 cigarettes daily) for 4 years. On examination his blood pressure was 143/78 mmHg, heart rate of 74 beats/min and his body mass index was 23 kg/m 2. No pathological findings were detected on physical examination. An electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed rS, STsegment elevation in leads V1 and V2 as well as T-wave inversion in lead I  while echocardiography was normal. The level of high-sensitivity troponin I was significantly elevated at 0.49 ng/mL (normal range: 0-0.06 ng/mL) whereas the levels of both myoglobin and creatine kinaseMB fraction (CKMB) were normal. The patient's lipid profile and white blood cell count were also within the normal reference ranges. Acute anteroseptal myocardial infarction was suspected. A chest X-ray showed multiple solid nodules in the left upper lobe of lung . Thoracic computed tomography (CT) revealed PTB in the left upper lobe due to the presence of nodules of different sizes and a tree-in-bud pattern . The patient was therefore transferred toNo NOTE: Hs-TnI: high-sensitivity troponin I, CKMB: creatine kinase-MB fraction, TnI: troponin I, Hcy: homosysteine, TG: triglyceride, TC: total cholesterol, HDL: high-density lipoprotein, LDL: low-density lipoprotein, ESR: erythrocyte sedimentation rate, CRP: C-reactive protein, ASO: anti-streptolysin O, RF: rheumatoid factor, CAD: coronary artery disease, CVA: cerebrovascular accident, DM: diabetes mellitus, CTD: connective tissue disease our hospital for further treatment two days later. Despite the absence of fever, night sweat, weakness, cough, sputum, and hemoptysis, he was diagnosed with PTB by a pulmonologist according to the chest X-ray and CT findings, a strongly positive tuberculin skin test, and a history of close contact with a colleague who was subsequently diagnosed with PTB one year previously. The contact with the colleague amounted to a >1 month period of unconscious exposure to tuberculosis. The patient was thus administered a combination of isoniazid, rifampin, ethambutol and pyrazinamide. HHcy was diagnosed in the course of evaluating the patient's myocardial enzyme levels. The serum homosysteine level is one of the routinely tested for this purpose. His homosysteine level was found to be elevated at 51.4 μmol/L (normal range: 4.0-15.4 μmol/L), whereas the serum concentrations of vitamin B12 and folic acid were found to be decreased at 140.8 pg/mL (normal range: 200-900 pg/mL) and 5.3 nmol/L (normal range: 6.8-36.3 nmol/L), respectively. The patient's serum level of vitamin B6 was 45.3 μmol/L, which is within the normal range (14.6-72.9 μmol/L). Hence, he received vitamin supplementation with vitamin B12 (25 μg, three times daily) and folic acid (5 mg, three daily). A variety of immunological tests excluded hypothyroidism and connective tissue disease (CTD) and, importantly, systemic vasculitis . His blood pressure on admission was 105/77 mmHg. His serum troponin I level was elevated at 0.15 μg/L (normal range: <0.01 μg/L). ECG showed rS, elevated ST segment and inverted T-waves in the leads V1-V3 as well as a flattened T-wave in lead I . The patient received a standard treatment regimen in accordance with the ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) protocol on the basis of smoking cessation. On the third day after admission, coronary angiography revealed 99% stenosis in the proximal segment and 80% stenosis in the mid-segment of the left anterior descending (LAD) artery with thrombolysis in myocardial infarction grade 2 (TIMI 2) flow . Furthermore, 80% stenosis was observed in the proximal segment of the second diagonal (D2) artery. The left circumflex (LCx) and right coronary arteries were normal. At the beginning of October, PCI was performed and three sirolimus-eluting stents were implanted . During the 1-month hospitalization period, the man recovered quickly and his chest pain never recurred. His systolic blood pressure during the hospitalization period ranged from 110 to 130 mmHg and his diastolic blood pressure ranged from 60 to 80 mmHg. At discharge at the end of October, 2014, ECG was normal , and thoracic CT revealed multiple nodules of different sizes and patchy shadows of high density with cavities in the apicoposterior segment of the left upper lobe of the lung, suggesting a significant improvement over the admission . The serum concen
