A 54 year-old woman (86 kg, BMI 30.1) was transferred to the critical care unit after successful resuscitation from an out-of-hospital pulseless electrical activity (PEA) cardiac arrest. Her past medical history was significant for severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease requiring home oxygen. Post resuscitation, she remained comatose and a seizure episode was witnessed in the ICU. Her temperature rapidly increased to 38.3 °C one hour after admission, upon which a cooling blanket was applied and 2 litres of intravenous cold saline were administered. These interventions resulted in only a mild reduction of temperature, reaching 37.6 °C after 4 h ( a). At that point, an ECD was placed to aid in temperature reduction. After confirming adequate connection of the ECD to the external heat exchange unit, we were able to induce hypothermia despite the patient's ongoing febrile response. Patient temperature was reduced, from 37.6 to 35 °C, within 6 h. During hypothermia induction, the cooling blanket was kept on. After induction, the cooling blanket was removed and hypothermia was maintained with the ECD alone. The bedside nurse adjusted the external unit's temperature targets on more than one occasion. This was noted to quickly reflect on the patient's body temperature . After 26 h of ECD use, the device was removed. Over the next few days, the patient showed signs of neurological recovery. Due to her pre-existing respiratory disease however, weaning from mechanical ventilation was prolonged. Extubation was achieved on day 16, after which she made a full recovery and was discharged home on day 23.
A 59 year-old man (73 kg, BMI 23.8) was admitted to the critical care unit after successful resuscitation from an out-of-hospital PEA cardiac arrest. Return of spontaneous circulation was obtained after 1 h from initiation of CPR. Post resuscitation, the patient exhibited signs of cardiogenic shock and pulmonary edema. ST elevation in the lateral leads of his ECG led to an urgent coronary angiogram. This revealed no significant coronary artery disease but severe mitral regurgitation was found. An intra-aortic balloon pump was inserted and he was transferred to the critical care unit on both epinephrine and norepinephrine infusions. His initial temperature on intensive care admission was 35 °C. No temperature interventions at that time were therefore required. Approximately 7 h later, his temperature slowly began to rise, despite the use of a cooling blanket and the application of ice packs to his axilla and groin. At that time, the patient's severe hypoxia due to acute pulmonary edema, precluded the use of intravenous refrigerated crystalloids for temperature reduction. The ECD was therefore inserted for temperature modulation for the remaining 17 h. Despite the patient's rising temperature trajectory, a reduction of temperature from 35.8 to 34.8 °C was achieved within 3 h using the ECD ( b). Shivering was observed and an intravenous bolus of cisatracurium was given. The bedside nurse was allowed to adjust the external unit's temperature targets at her discretion to achieve the desired patient temperature. On multiple occasions however, the nurse turned the unit off after the patient had reached target temperature assuming it was no longer needed. After completing 24 h of hypothermia, rewarming from 34.9 to 36.2 °C was achieved within 2 h using the ECD. The unit was then turned off. Over the next few hours the patient spiked a fever peaking at 39.1 °C, upon which the heat exchange unit was turned on again and set to a target of 36.5 °C. Over the next 3 h, the patient's temperature steadily approached target, coming down to 36.8 °C ( b). Unfortunately, the patient continued to show signs of poor neurological prognosis during his critical care stay. A clinical diagnosis of post-anoxic brain death was made on day 3.
A 47 year-old man (95 kg, BMI 34.9) was admitted to the intensive care unit for postoperative care after an emergent coronary artery bypass grafting procedure. Preoperatively, he had experienced symptoms suggestive of a respiratory tract infection with dyspnea, high-grade fevers and leukocytosis. In the postoperative period, gradual deterioration of his respiratory status was observed despite empiric antibiotic therapy. On postoperative day 6, he developed an acute respiratory distress syndrome and a CT scan of the thorax revealed evidence of multifocal necrotizing pneumonia. An increasing temperature refractory to broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy, regular acetaminophen administration, cooling blankets, and application of ice-packs to the groin and axilla triggered the insertion of the ECD for fever control. His temperature at the time was uncontrolled, peaking at 39.3 °C. After insertion of the ECD, a temperature reduction from 39.3 to 36.9 °C was achieved within 4 h. Over the next few hours, the patient's temperature fluctuated ( c), leading the nurse to change the set target accordingly. During the whole time the ECD was in place, a cisatracurium infusion was ongoing for optimization of mechanical ventilation. No evaluation of the device as a potential trigger of shivering is therefore available for this patient. His hospital stay was remarkable for sepsisinduced multi-organ failure in addition to atrial and ventricular arrhythmias that were observed since his admission. After a long stay in hospital, he eventually recovered and was discharged home on postoperative day 59.No complications directly attributable to the ECD were observed for the three reported cases. The ECD required less than three minutes for its placement to be successfully completed. Ease-of-use was described as excellent by both nurses and physicians.
