A 63-year-old man who underwent atrial septal defect surgical repair 6 months previously suffered from faintness and dizziness one month after surgery. The Holter monitor electrocardiogram showed chronic atrial fibrillation with 104 episodes of long RR interval (>1.5s), the longest of which was 5.92 s. The patient was referred to our hospital for pacemaker implantation. An echocardiogram revealed a right atrium enlargement and a widened coronary sinus complicated with persistent left superior vena cava. There was also evidence of severe pulmonary artery hypertension with moderate tricuspid regurgitation. The patient underwent implantation of a transvenous single-chamber pacemaker (Zephyr SR 5620, St. Jude Medical, St. Paul, USA) three days after admission. Due to the anatomical variation, the ventricular lead (1888TC-58) repeatedly strayed into the coronary sinus and swung during the course of implantation. By means of great efforts, the electrode was finally fixed at the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) septum. The intraoperative measurements revealed a capture threshold at 2.0 V with a 0.5 ms pulse duration, lead impedance at 780 Ω, and an R wave during spontaneous rhythm at 4.5 mV. The patient complained of faintness at the one-week follow-up after implantation. A pacemaker interrogation showed a spontaneous R wave amplitude at 3.4-4.6 mV and lead impedance at 620 Ω, whereas intermittent pacing and sensing failure was recorded at a pacing rate of 70 beats/ min. However, a successful capture was acquired at 90 beats/min with an output of 3.0 V/0.5 ms . A chest X-ray was also performed and no sign of lead dislodgment was observed . An echocardiogram showed no signs of lead perforation or effusion in the pericardial space. Considering the difficulty of the lead placement and fixation, the electrode was not repositioned since the patient was not dependent on the pacemaker. Therefore, the pacemaker was programmed to VVI 90 beats/min at an output of 4.0V (pulse duration: 1.0 ms) with an R wave sensitivity at 2.0 mV. At the 3-month follow-up, the patient again underwent apacemaker check. This time, fortunately, a reliable capture was obtained at an output of 1.25 V (pulse duration: 0.5 ms) independent of the pacing rate . Correct sensing of the spontaneous ventricular beat was also observed around 4.0 mV. The lead impedance measured by the device telemetry was 353 Ω. Hence, the pacemaker was permanently programmed to a lower rate of 60 beats/min with an output of 2.0 V (pulse duration: 0.5 ms), avoiding lead repositioning. No further signs of malfunction were observed on prolonged electrocardiogram monitoring and his symptoms resolved. For further study, two-dimensional echocardiography was performed using a 52105 probe (F-75, ALOKA, Tokyo, Japan). The short-axis dimensions of RVOT were measured on the parasternal great artery short axis view at various pacing rates. The end-diastolic diameter measured 3.2 cm, 2.9 cm, 2.8 cm, 2.5 cm, and 2.5 cm when the pacing rate increased from 60 to 100 beats/min by 10 beats/min steps, while the end-systolic diameter measured 2.7 cm, 2.3 cm, 2.3 cm, 2.1 cm, and 1.9 cm, respectively . Therefore, the increased pacing rates were accompanied by a reduction in the RVOT dimension in the present case. The movement of the pacing lead did not result in any notable differences at various pacing rates.
