A 55-year-old male was referred by his family medicine physician to the emergency department (ED) because of chest pain and fever. One year earlier, the patient underwent AVR (St Jude A-29) for severe aortic stenosis. His medical history included a stroke with full recovery. The rest of his medical history was unremarkable. On physical examination, he was febrile (temperature 38.5ºC) with diaphoresis, blood pressure of 110/50 mm Hg, a heart rate of 90 bpm, and normal oxygen saturation on room air. A combined systolic and diastolic heart murmur was noted. Crackles were present on the bases of the lung, but with no evident signs of severe heart failure. In addition, no typical signs of endocarditis on the skin were detected. Laboratory testing at admission indicated mildly elevated white blood cells (13.6×10 9 /L), C-reactive protein (CRP, 63.1 mg/L), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH, 728) with signs indicative of chronic anemia (hemoglobin 99 g/L). Electrolytes and serum troponin were within normal laboratory ranges. During short initial triage in the ED, the patient suddenly developed wide QRS complex tachycardia compatible with a sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia . He was successfully treated with amiodarone and synchronized electrocardioversion with 200 J. After a short period, the patient was admitted to the coronary care unit. Transthoracic echocardiography and transesophageal echocardiography were performed promptly. Principal echo findings included moderate, predominately paravalvular aortic regurgitation with left coronary Valsalva sinus aneurysm but no visible communication with the left atrium. The specific " rocking motion " of the aortic valve prosthesis partially limited the severity of aortic regurgitation. The left ventricle was spherical shaped and mildly dilated, with preserved ejection fraction. Moderate functional mitral regurgitation was found because of aortic regurgitation and increased left ventricular filling pressure. The imaging of the heart in the catheterization laboratory with fluoroscopy showed that the prosthetic aortic valve was significantly displaced with every heartbeat, causing an impressive " rocking motion " of the prosthesis . The patient underwent urgent operation. Intraoperative findings revealed highly advanced inflammatory process, which included locally advanced abscess of the aortic root and the sinuses of Valsalva. The aortic root and annulus were reconstructed with glutaraldehyde-fixed pericardium and root replacement after which the Bentall procedure was performed. However, severe inflammation in the tissues resulted in root and left coronary button dehiscence and massive intractable bleeding. The patient eventually died from irreversible hemorrhagic shock. Autopsy findings confirmed PVE caused by Propionibacterium acnes (PA). Coronary artery disease was excluded.
