A 45 year old Caucasian man with developmental delay was walking outdoors. This was part of his normal daily routine. He was accompanied by his mother, who was a short distance behind him. He was misidentified as a criminal suspect by police officers, who attempted to take him into custody. He resisted this arrest violently. He was taken to the ground, and restrained in a face-down position. Both police and civilian witnesses stated that he had his arms extended and chest off the ground when he suddenly collapsed, becoming cyanotic and non-responsive. He was placed into a recovery position, and resuscitation attempts were started. Paramedics found him to be asystolic. He was transported to hospital where he was pronounced dead. Based on the timeline of radio communication, the duration of interaction with police was approximately 3 min. There was no evidence of excited delirium or history of psychiatric illness or drug use. At autopsy, the body was that of an obese and appropriately developed 6'1'', 270 lb male (185 cm, 122.5 kg). No craniofacial dysmorphic features were identified. There was extensive facial and conjunctival congestion, with a single palpebral conjunctival petechial hemorrhage identified in each eye. No external injury of the neck was identified. Numerous minor blunt force injuries were identified on the face, torso, and extremities. Avascular layered dissection of the neck revealed focal intramuscular hemorrhage within the right sternomastoid muscle. Layered dissection of the torso and extremities revealed numerous small intramuscular hemorrhages within the back and limbs. The heart showed mild cardiomegaly (440 g) with concentric left ventricular hypertrophy (1.7 cm thickness), and sub-occlusive coronary atherosclerosis. No structural abnormality was identified. The larynx, thyroid cartilage, and hyoid bone were unremarkable and uninjured. There was no evidence of sickle cell disease. No other injuries or significant findings were noted. Toxicological testing was negative for common drugs, including amphetamines, and cocaine and its metabolites. Vitreous biochemical testing was non-contributory. Postmortem imaging of the neck structures identified no fractures. Post-mortem molecular testing demonstrated this man to be heterozygous for a catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) associated mutation (Phe189Leu) in the calsequestrin 2 (CASQ2) gene. At the time of initial testing, this mutation was classified as a class II mutation (unknown significance), which would be not expected to cause disease in a heterozygous state. Subsequently, the mutation was reclassified as a class I mutation (deleterious), that may cause disease in a heterozygous state. The cause of death was reported as cardiac arrhythmia precipitated by struggle/restraint in a man with CPVT.
