An 81-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital due to acute chest and back pain without either any preceding symptoms or emotional stress. She had been under medical treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and chronic gastritis for over 12 years; however, no heart murmurs were detected prior to admission. On admission, her blood pressure was 93/74 mmHg, her heart rate was 75 beats/min (bpm) with a regular rhythm, her respiratory rate was 23 breaths/min and her peripheral oxygen saturation was 100% under the administration of 10 L/min oxygen via a rebreather mask. A Levine 4/6 pansystolic murmur was audible at the apex. In addition, the D-dimer level was 8.5 μg/mL and the Nterminal pro brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) level was 2,178 pg/mL, whereas the myocardial enzyme levels were within the normal ranges. An electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrated ST segment elevation in leads II, III and aVF and negative T-waves in leads V1-6 . A chest X-ray showed an enlarged cardiac silhouette and lung congestion, and transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) demonstrated left ventricular apical asynergy with a left-to-right ventricular shunt on color-flow Doppler . In addition, emergent coronary angiography (CAG) revealed no significant coronary artery stenosis ( , B), whereas left ventriculography disclosed apical ballooning with akinesis and basal hyperkinesis. Furthermore, the right ventricle and pulmonary artery were connected via a left , D). We thus diagnosed the patient with TCM-VSP. After emergent cardiac catheterization, her blood pressure dropped to 60 mmHg, and the cardiac shock persisted, even after the administration of appropriate fluid resuscitation. Hence, she was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) and given inotropes with norepinephrine, after which she became hemodynamically stable, with improvements in her symptoms. Echocardiography subsequently demonstrated a pulmonary to systemic blood flow ratio (Qp/Qs) of 2.82, with no left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. We continued medical management during the early phase of TCMVSP. However, two hours after admission, the patient exhibited sustained ventricular tachycardia with a cycle length of 270 ms that lasted for approximately 30 seconds and then stopped spontaneously. We therefore initiated treatment with intravenous lidocaine (1,000 mg/day) to prevent ventricular tachycardia. One day after admission, ECG demonstrated a remarkable correction in the QT interval (QTc) prolongation (QTc=510 ms), without hypokalemia (K=5.2 mEq/L). Therapy with inotropes and fluid resuscitation was effective inincreasing tissue perfusion, after which the dose of the inotropes was gradually decreased in parallel with improvements in the patient's condition. Three days after admission, however, she suddenly lost consciousness due to ventricular fibrillation (VF). Despite applying resuscitation, including repeated electrical defibrillation, she could not be rescued. Postmortem computed tomography demonstrated no specific findings, including cardiac tamponade, massive thoracic or abdominal bleeding or intracranial hemorrhage.
