A 58-year-old man had undergone total correction (infundibular resection, transannular patch, patch closure of a perimembranous VSD) at the age of 13 years and presented with recurrent, symptomatic, self-terminating broad-complex tachycardias. Echocardiography and MRI revealed severe PV regurgitation requiring PV replacement. Before surgery, programmed electric stimulation and RV EAM were performed. Two fast VTs (cycle lengths, 250 ms; ) were inducible, and substrate mapping identified 2 anatomic isthmuses: isthmus 1 between the transannular patch and the TA, and A 66-year-old woman underwent primary repair of TOF at the age of 15 years with resection of severely hypertrophied infundibular muscle, commissurotomy of the PV, partial patch closure of a large perimembranous VSD, and suture of a large longitudinal RV incision. Thirteen years later, complete closure of the VSD was performed. She subsequently developed recurrent, symptomatic VT terminated by antitachycardia pacing. During electrophysiology study, the presumed clinical VT (cycle length, 370 ms; ) was induced. RV electroanatomic mapping identified 2 anatomic isthmuses bordered by EUS—isthmus 1 between a longitudinal EUS area (consistent with the previous anterior RV incision) and the TA and isthmusis marked with the dashed line in both pictures. At both panels the pulmonary homograft is held by the forceps. The pulmonary homograft is already posteriorly sutured to the ventricular septal defect patch (marked with *). After complete implantation of the homograft, important parts of the right ventricular (RV) outflow tract endocardium and in particular the infundibular septum are covered by the homograft. RA indicates right atrium; and VCS, vena cava superior. and radiofrequency slowed and terminated the VT <10 seconds, rendering the VT noninducible. A linear radiofrequency lesion was performed to connect the areas of EUS. However, the activation sequence during pacing proximal to the line was still consistent with conduction through the isthmus. After 3 months, VT recurred. At repeat study, the same VT was inducible. Although double potentials could be recorded along isthmus 3 during SR, differential pacing was consistent with persistent slow conduction through the isthmus. During VT, diastolic activity could be recorded within isthmus 3 and radiofrequency delivery resulted in delay and late termination of VT, but the VT remained inducible. Mapping at the left side of the region from within the right coronary cusp revealed diastolic activity (30 ms before the earliest activation in the RVOT) and entrainment consistent with an isthmus site . Radiofrequency ablation at that site terminated VT <5 seconds and prevented VT reinduction. Differential pacing performed from the RVOT was consistent with conduction block. The patient continued with a low dose of sotalol and remained free of VT during 15 months of follow-up.
A 45-year-old male with rTOF (operation reports not available), who had undergone implantation of a biventricular implantable cardioverter-defibrillator for VTs and progressive heart failure, was referred for VT ablation after prior ablation attempts in other centers had failed. Two VTs were inducible (VT1, cycle length 370 ms; VT2, cycle length 380 ms). RV EAM revealed a small low-voltage area in the RV free wall perhaps consistent with a prior incision and a second low-voltage area at the septum bordered by the TA and an area of EUS in continuity with the PV most likely consistent with a VSD A 36-year-old man with rTOF (operation report not available) who had undergone ICD implantation and a previous VT ablation in another center presented with an electrical storm and multiple ICD shocks. The presumed clinical VT (cycle length 345 ms) was induced . RV EAM identified isthmus 1 between EUS in the anterior RVOT in continuity with the PV and isthmus 3 bordered by EUS in continuity with the TA (VSD patch) and the PV. Entrainment at the ventriculo-infundibular fold was compatible with a VT entrance site and clockwise activation (QR in V 1 ) of isthmus 3. However, radiofrequency at this site did not terminate VT. At the opposite side in the aorta, between the right coronary cusp and the noncoronary cusp, a late potential (220 ms after QRS offset) was recorded during SR . During VT, middiastolic activity was present and entrainment was consistent with a central isthmus site. A single radiofrequency application terminated VT <10 seconds and prevented subsequent VT induction. To minimize procedural risks, no additional radiofrequency applications were performed in the aortic root. VT recurred after 1 month, and a repeat procedure was performed. The previous recorded VT could be induced. Activation mapping confirmed a re-entry circuit entrance at the ventriculoinfundibular fold and an exit at the right coronary cusp region. A line of radiofrequency lesions was placed across isthmus 3 from the RV, LVOT, and the area between the left and right coronary cusps, abolishing inducible VT. The patient was discharged on nadolol and remained free of VT during 3 months of follow-up.
