Case 1 A 32-year-old, unbooked primigravida at 37-week gestation was brought to our hospital by paramedics with ongoing CPR following an asystolic cardiac arrest at home. She had complained of a worsening shortness of breath of 3-day duration for which she had not sought medical attention. She was found collapsed at home and was attended to by paramedics and was noted to be in asystole. The initial resuscitation at site proved unsuccessful, prompting transfer to the hospital with ongoing CPR for further resuscitation. Thirty minutes of CPR had been performed prior to her arrival in the hospital triage. A PMCS was performed within 5 min of arrival, but both mother and the baby demised, presumably due to a prolonged period of cardiac arrest prior to effective resuscitation.
A 38-year-old G2P1 patient presented to our hospital at 24-week gestation with uterine contractions and bleeding per vaginum. She gave a 1-day history of fever associated with rash, vomiting and at least six episodes of diarrhoea. On admission, her temperature was 39.3 °C with a tachycardia (117 beats/min) and a normal blood pressure (121/ 55 mmHg). A transabdominal ultrasound scan confirmed intrauterine foetal demise. She was transferred to our ICU where she rapidly deteriorated, becoming increasingly dyspnoeic and tachypnoeic. The peripheral oxygen saturation dropped to 75 % on room air. Bilateral, coarse crepitations were audible on chest auscultation. High flow oxygen was administered, but she progressed to cardiorespiratory arrest. CPR was commenced immediately, with early endotracheal intubation and left uterine displacement (LUD). Ventricular fibrillation was identified and she was electrically cardioverted into a spontaneous rhythm briefly, but without any measurable cardiac output. CPR was continued and delivery by PMCS was achieved within 7 min of arrest. However, resuscitation proved futile and was abandoned after 60 min of CPR. A postmortem diagnosis of amniotic fluid embolism was established. A 40-year-old Chinese female presented to our labour ward at 28-week gestation, with a brief history of abdominal pain and shortness of breath, and loss of foetal movements. Although her vital signs on arrival were stable, the abdomen was tender on palpation. Placental abruption was clinically suspected, with a bedside ultrasound scan confirming intrauterine foetal death. During continuing assessment, the patient became progressively difficult to rouse, deteriorating into cardiorespiratory arrest. Our emergency resuscitation code (Code Blue) was activated. The close proximity of a senior medical team allowed immediate CPR and a timely decision was taken to perform a PMCS within 5 min of cardiorespiratory arrest. At PMCS, the abdomen was found filled with fresh blood, and a dehiscence was noted at the uterine fundus of a prior myomectomy scar. The stillborn neonate was delivered, with a brachial pulse becoming palpable in the mother soon after the delivery, suggesting maternal return of spontaneous circulation. Due to the ongoing blood loss from the uterine scar and uterine atony, blood transfusion was commenced. A B-Lynch suture was required to manage bleeding and an atonic uterus and the abdomen was closed. She was moved to the ICU for further resuscitation. Further blood and blood product therapy, mechanical ventilation and haemofilteration were required for coagulation failure, persistent pulmonary oedema, and acute renal injury that followed resuscitation and massive blood transfusion. After
