A 53-year-old woman with a history of malignant lymphoma was rescued from ventricular fibrillation (VF) by an AED in 2007. A dualchamber ICD (Marquis DR, Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN, USA; CapSure Fix Novus/5076, Medtronic; RIATA 1580, St Jude Medical, Sylmar, CA, USA) was implanted. The device detected VF in July 2008 and was terminated successfully after delivery of the first ICD shock. The ICD was later replaced with a Secura DR (Medtronic) in November 2010 due to battery depletion. The last follow-up of the patient occurred in August 2011, where impedance values were stable and measured impedances of the RV and SVC coils of † This study complied with the guidelines of the declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the institutional review board of Gunma University Hospital. All patients granted their written, informed consent before participation in this study. 46 and 55 V, respectively. No electrical abnormality of the system was observed during follow-up. In December 2011, the patient was later found on the street in cardiopulmonary arrest. She was transported to the nearest hospital and later expired. The ICD device and a portion of the RV lead were explanted and returned to the respective manufacturers for further examination.
shows the therapy log from the explanted device. The cause of death was determined to be VF. The device diagnosed VF and attempted to deliver shock therapy; however, therapy was not delivered due to a low impedance measurement. The device diagnosed VF again and attempted to deliver a second shock. However, the second shock was also interrupted and failed to provide appropriate therapy. This sequence occurred six times. All of the shocks were interrupted by the excessive current protection system and after the sixth failed shock delivery attempt, the device did not provide further therapy. The manufacturers examined the returned device and lead. An arc mark was not found on the device body, and no mechanical or electrical abnormality was observed within the partially extracted leads. We speculate that the excessive current most likely occurred by electrical short circuit in the insulation between the SVC and RV coil conductors.
A 42-year-old male was implanted with an ICD in November 2001 after being diagnosed with idiopathic VF. An ENDOTAK ENDURANCE #0134 (CPI Inc., St Paul, MN, USA) was chosen as the ICD lead. In July 2002, the ICD delivered its first shock and was successful in terminating VF. Amiodarone was administered due to the increasing number of delivered shocks subsequent to the first shock delivery. The ICD device was later replaced in 2004. During the time of replacement, sensing failure occurred and a new RV pacing lead was implanted while the RV coil of the ICD lead remained in continuous use. In July 2010, a second device replacement was performed and a Lumax 540-DR (Biotronik, Berlin, Germany) was implanted. After this replacement, a remote monitoring system was utilized to send patient data to the remote monitoring centre in Berlin, Germany. In May 2012, the data that were sent via the remote monitoring system exhibited no abnormalities with an impedance reading of 68 V . At 6:00 a.m., the patient's wife noticed something was wrong with the patient and requested an ambulance and tried to resuscitate him. An electrocardiogram (ECG) was obtained in the ambulance, which demonstrated VF. An external defibrillation shock was delivered, but was unsuccessful. The patient was transported to the emergency room at the local hospital, but expired en route. Device interrogation was attempted; however, the programmer could not communicate with the device. The device was later explanted and returned to the manufacturer for evaluation. The lead was not explanted. The manufacturer's analysis report showed that the device surface was intact but the HV switching circuit in the device can was destroyed . A 39-year-old male, who had a family history of sudden cardiac death, was referred to a university clinic because of palpitations. His ECG demonstrated a coved-type ST elevation, and polymorphic ventricular tachycardia was induced by double premature stimulation during the EP study. Therefore, an ICD (Guidant VENTAK PRIZUM2 DR, Guidant (Boston Scientific), St Paul, MN, USA; ENDOTAK ENDURANCE EZ #0154; Guidant (Boston Scientific)) was implanted in 2004. In May 2011, a device replacement was performed along with defibrillation threshold (DFT) testing. During DFT testing, VF was induced by a 2 J shock on the T wave and after VF detection, the device delivered a 14 J shock, which was programmed. However, the VF was not terminated and an audible 'popping' sound was noted. An external shock was administered and the VF was finally terminated. Immediate interrogation of the device was attempted but was unsuccessful, and a short-circuit alert was indicated on the programmer screen. After further review of the ICD lead, an insulation failure was found. The lead failure occurred not only on the silicone outer insulation, but also on the ethylene tetrafluoroethylene (ETFE) of the RV coil conductor .
A 32-year-old woman with DCM was implanted with an ICD system (ICD lead: 6945 SPRINT, Medtronic; atrial lead: SELUTE AJ, ICD device, Boston Scientific) in 2004. The device was later replaced in October 2011. During the replacement procedure, the ICD and atrial pacing leads were found to be located in front of the device. The atrial and ICD lead were dissected from the fibrous tissue in the device pocket and placed behind the device. DFT testing was not performed after the procedure. In June 2012, the patient was awoken by a loud, clapping sound inside the device pocket; and she felt pain in the location where the device was located, followed by an audible noise coming from the device. The following morning, she visited the clinic, and a physician attempted to interrogate the device. However, the interrogation was unsuccessful, and a warning was displayed on the programmer's monitor. An emergency operation was performed, and insulation failures on the ICD lead and atrial lead were observed. Inspection of the lead body showed the presence of a distal slit. The atrial lead demonstrated failure due to a lead-to-can abrasion. An arc mark was observed on the device surface near the area where the ICD lead failed . Multiple thermal burns around the device were also observed. What's new? † This report is the first to describe the mechanisms of short electrical short circuit in high-voltage devices. † Short electrical short circuit is a rare complication, but lifethreatening when it developed. † Moreover, it is unfortunately unpredictable before the device discharge a high-energy current against ventricular tachycardia. † All we can to do to prevent from this complication: (i) avoid lead stress at ICD implantation, (ii) select a single-coil lead instead of a dual-coil lead, or (iii) use a unique algorithm called DynamicTX.Various mechanisms and clinical phenotypes supraventricular tachycardia spontaneously terminated and therefore was not a life-threatening event. Unfortunately, in Cases 1 and 2, the failure to deliver shock therapy resulted in the death of the patients.
