Patients consulting our center consist of low-and high-risk cases; they are referred either for screening purposes or for evaluation of fetal anomalies. We searched our fetal database between January 2006 and December 2013 for cases with a suspected diagnosis of LQTS.
The 32-year old primigravida was referred to our department at 20+6 weeks of gestation for fetal anomaly ultrasound. She had LQTS 1 (heterozygous mutation of KCNQ1; 1049G4T; G350V), which was also present in her brother, mother and grandmother. Investigations before pregnancy had revealed normal findings on transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and 24-h Holter electrocardiography (ECG). Exercise electrocardiography had shown QTc interval prolongation to 532 ms at a heart rate of 92 beats per minute (bpm). She was on bisoprolol 5 mg/d. In the early second trimester she reported shortness of breath after climbing stairs. Cardiac function tests (ECG, TTE) were stable. The fetal anomaly scan, including echocardiography and M-mode tracing of the fetal cardiac rhythm was normal. Doppler examination of the fetal and fetoplacental circulation was unremarkable. Fortnightly controls were performed with stable findings in the mother and fetus. At 29+3 weeks of gestation, mild fetal sinus bradycardia (105 bpm) was present. Cardiotocography (CTG)  was normal except for the decreased baseline. Further controls were unchanged. Elective cesarean section on maternal request was performed at 39+2 weeks of gestation. An apparently healthy girl (2785 g, 8th percentile; Apgar score 9/10/10; umbilical artery pH 7.30; BE À1.0 mval/L) was delivered and admitted to our pediatric cardiology unit. Postnatal ECG confirmed LQTS (QTc interval: 510 ms), and molecular analysis confirmed inheritance of the maternal mutation. At the time of reporting the infant is one year old and doing well under oral therapy with propranolol 3 mg/d. The 38-year old gravida 2 para 1 was referred at 21+6 weeks of gestation for fetal echocardiography. Her past obstetric history included one emergency cesarean section for failure to progress 8 years earlier. Her medical and family history was unremarkable, and her first-born son was healthy. Fetal echocardiography revealed severe right ventricular (RV) dysfunction and pulmonary stenosis with minimal flow over the tricuspid valve and reverse flow in the ductus arteriosus. Cardiac rhythm was normal (146 bpm); a triphasic blood flow pattern with reversal during atrial systole was present in the ductus venosus and umbilical vein. There were no other structural anomalies; karyotyping was declined. Fortnightly epimyocardial VVI pacer was implanted. Molecular analysis revealed LQTS 2 (KCNH2; 1882G4A; G628S). The boy was discharged at the age of 4 months. Myocardial function deteriorated progressively, with development of arrhythmogenic dilatative cardiomyopathy. The VVI pacemaker was replaced by a DDD at three years of age. Cardiac decompensation secondary to influenza infection and sepsis resulted in cardiac fibrillation. After successful cardiopulmonary resuscitation the child was listed for transplantation, which was performed at four years of age. At the time of the last followup, the seven-year old was stable and attended primary school.
The 28-year old primigravida with an established diagnosis of LQTS 2 (KCNH2; 1838C4T; T613M) was referred at 23+3 weeks of gestation for fetal anomaly ultrasound. At the age of 16 three episodes of ventricular fibrillation had occurred; an ICD-device was implanted subsequently. Investigations before pregnancy had revealed a QTc interval prolongation to 440 ms and normal findings on TTE. Exercise ECG had shown an increase of preterminal T in V4 and V6 at a heart rate of 153 bpm. She was on atenolol 32.5 mg/d. The fetal cardiac anatomy including Doppler examination of the fetal and fetoplacental circulation was normal, but complex arrhythmias were present. No firm diagnosis could be established because of extensive fetal movements. Fortnightly controls were planned. However the patient only returned at 26+5 weeks of gestation. Frequent changes between second-degree AV-block (Wenckebach type) and sinus rhythm (115 bpm) had developed; otherwise, the fetus was stable. At 29+3 weeks of gestation cardiomegaly and moderate biventricular myocardial hypertrophy with intermittent sinus bradycardia (70–105 bpm) was present without any signs of cardiac failure. Further controls did not reveal any change in the fetal condition. The maternal cardiac condition remained stable during the entire pregnancy. At 38+3 weeks of gestation elective cesarean section was performed. An apparently healthy boy (3725 g, 78th percentile; Apgar score 8/9/10; umbilical artery pH 7.34; BE 0.8 mval/L) was delivered and transferred to our pediatric cardiology unit. LQTS was confirmed by electrocardiography (QTc interval: 531 ms), and oral therapy with propranolol and magnesium was started. At the time of reporting, the child is two years old and asymptomatic under oral therapy with magnesium and propranolol.
