An 82-year-old woman with exertional chest pain was admitted to our hospital. Her past medical history was notable for cerebral infarction, hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus. She was currently receiving treatment with nilvadipine (2 mg), telmisartan (40 mg), hydrochlorothiazide (2 mg) and voglibose (0.6 mg) per day. Her height was 153 cm, and her weight was 64.6 kg. Her body temperature was 37.2°C. A physical examination performed on admission revealed a blood pressure of 120/79 mmHg, pulse of 68/min, normal heart sounds and clear lung fields. Laboratory testing showed a white blood cell count of 4,500/mm 3 , hemoglobin level of 12.7 g/dL, blood urea nitrogen level of 29.9 mg/dL, Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Nagasaki University Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Japan, Department of Cardiology, Nagasaki Rosai Hospital, Japan, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Kokura Memorial Hospital, Japan, Department of Cardiology, Sasebo Municipal General Hospital, Japan, Department of Cardiology, Saint Nova Hospital, Japan and Division of Pathology, Department of Pathology & Biodefense, Faculty of Medicine, Saga University, Japan Received for publication December 23, 2014; Accepted for publication May 25, 2015 Correspondence to Dr. Hiroaki Kawano, hkawano@nagasaki-u.ac.jpcreatinine level of 1.31 mg/dL, aspartate aminotransferase level of 34 IU/L, alanine aminotransferase level of 32 IU/L, lactate dehydrogenase level of 284 IU/L, creatine kinase level of 79 IU/L, fasting plasma glucose level of 303 mg/ dL, hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) level of 10.6%, total cholesterol level of 284 mg/dL, triglyceride level of 137 mg/dL, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level of 188 mg/dL, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level of 48 mg/ dL, uric acid level of 8.2 mg/dL and brain natriuretic peptide level of 200 pg/mL. The troponin I level was normal. Electrocardiography showed normal results, whereas a chest x-ray revealed mild cardiomegaly (cardiothoracic ratio, 52%). Echocardiography demonstrated a normal left ventricular (LV) systolic function with a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 64% without LV hypertrophy. In order to evaluate the cause of chest pain, coronary angiography (CAG) was performed, which showed total occlusion in segment 1 of the right coronary artery (RCA), 50% stenosis in segment 7 of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and 50% stenosis in the left circumflex artery (LCX) ( , B). Although a collateral circulation from the LAD and LCX was observed in the RCA, the flow was not sufficient , suggesting that segment 1 of the RCA involved the culprit lesion. Therefore, the patient underwent elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for total occlusion of the RCA five days after the administration of aspirin at a dose of 100 mg and clopidogrel at a dose of 75 mg per day. A 3.0×33 mm and 3.0×28 mm SES (Cordis Corp., Bridgewater, USA) were deployed in the RCA . After PCI, the patient's symptoms remitted, and she was medicated with nilvadipine at 4 mg, telmisartan at 40 mg, isosorbide dinitrate R at 40 mg, voglibose at 0.6 mg and pitavastatin at 1 mg per day in addition to aspirin at 100 mg and clopidogrel at 75 mg per day. She was subsequently discharged home and visited our outpatient clinic each month. Repeat CAG was not performed because she was free from chest pain, and her creatinine level was 2.04 mg/ dL. Her condition was stable, with well-controlled diabetes mellitus (HbA1c around 6.5%) and hypercholesterolemia (LDL-C around 100 mg/dL). However, 16 months after the PCI procedure, she was transferred to our emergency department because of cardiopulmonary arrest. Although cardiopulmonary resuscitation was performed, refractory ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation continued, and she ultimately died. In order to evaluate the precise cause of death, an autopsy was performed after obtaining the daughters' consent. There was no evidence of new myocardial infarction or new significant stenosis in the coronary arteries, although an instent-restenotic lesion was noted at the proximal site of stent implantation in the RCA. Therefore, ventricular arrhythmia related to ischemia seemed to be the cause of death. In one restenotic lesion of the SES-implanted segment of the RCA , neointimal formation, including smooth muscle cell proliferation and increased extracellular matrix deposition, was seen . In the neointima, neovascularization, inflammatory cell infiltration and small calcified lesions were seen around the struts . Additionally, there were several macrophages near the calcified lesions containing many small calcified granules in their bodies . In another adjacent portion of the restenotic lesion , neointimal formation, including smooth muscle cell proliferation and increased extracellular matrix deposition , and large dystrophic calcified lesions were seen around the struts . Notably, there were multinucleated giant cells and macrophages around the site of calcification exhibiting calcification in their bodies . Original calcification due to atherosclerosis was seen in the media of the coronary artery that differed from the peri-strut calcification in the neointima . Previously reported common pathologic features of coronary arteries in patients treated with SES implantation were also observed in the non-restenotic area , as follows: mild neointimal formation with a plate calcified lesion , foamy macrophages accumulating around the struts  and restricted neointima formation with poor endothelialization around the struts (minimal endothelial coverage of the struts) . An intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) examination demonstrated original calcification of the stenotic lesion before stent implantation , with no calcified lesions around the struts of the stent  just after stenting.
