A 66-year-old Caucasian woman with type 2 diabetes presented to our emergency department with a threeweek history of generalized malaise, associated poor oral intake, and some diarrhea. Her enteric symptoms were vague and unquantifiable. She was obese and had a past medical history of poorly controlled type 2 diabetes for 15 years, hypertension, asthma, and depression. Her regular medication comprised metformin 3g daily, modified-release gliclazide 60mg daily, aspirin 100mg daily, atorvastatin 40mg daily, ramipril 10mg daily, and hydrochlorothiazide 25mg daily. Our patient was brought into hospital by ambulance; her pre-hospital observations were as follows: Glasgow Coma Scale score, 15; blood sugar level, 2.8mmol/L; blood pressure, 90/40mmHg; pulse, 54 beats per minute; respiratory rate, 32 breaths per minute; and peripheral oxygen saturation, 98% on 8L oxygen via a variable oxygen delivery mask. On arrival to our emergency department, she was confused with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 14 out of 15 (E4V4M6), with the rest of her physiological parameters similar to her prehospital observations. Her initial investigations were as follows: serum sodium, 140mmol/L (calcium gluconate, 15 units insulin (Actrapid) in 50mL 50% dextrose, and 1mL/kg of 8.4% sodium bicarbonate solution. Minutes after these initial investigations, our patient experienced a pulseless electrical activity cardiac arrest and was managed as per advanced life support protocol. She had a total downtime of 25 minutes. During cardiopulmonary resuscitation she was intubated and ventilated. Following return of spontaneous circulation, she required an infusion of adrenaline for blood pressure support. She had an unremarkable chest radiograph, electrocardiogram, and toxicology screen. With a presumed diagnosis of ischemic bowel based on vague abdominal features and profound lactatemia, our patient was admitted to our intensive care unit (ICU) for preoperative optimization. In our ICU, she was sedated and ventilated on an inspired oxygen concentration of 40% and on modest ventilator paramters (peak inspiratory pressure <25cmH 2 O). To treat her severe circulatory shock, she was fluid-resuscitated with a total of 10,000mL crystalloid from a central venous pressure of 8cmH 2 O to 16cmH 2 O. In addition, she required very high doses of noradrenaline and adrenaline. Continuous veno-venous hemodiafiltration was commenced at exchange rates of 50mL/kg/h using Hemosol B0 solution. She was empirically started on vancomycin and piperacillin and tazobactam (Tazocin) as broad-spectrum antimicrobial cover. Our patient went to theater 26 hours post admission for an exploratory laparotomy, which revealed no significant findings. We continued her broad-spectrum antimicrobial cover despite negative microbiological cultures. Renal replacement therapy continued and our patient's acid-base balance slowly normalized over three days. Having excluded all causes of a high anion gap lactic acidosis, including negative red blood cell transketolase activity for thiamine deficiency, we presumed our patient to have had a severe MALA 'triggered' by an acute kidney injury from dehydration. This was supported by a serum metformin level of 4mg/L. Her renal function slowly improved with continuous veno-venous hemodiafiltration and she slowly recovered with a total of 35 days stay in ICU.
