Ventricular tachycardia (VT) and, more rarely, sudden cardiac death are potential complications affecting the long-term outcome after Tetralogy of Fallot (ToF) repair . Intraventricular septal scar, fibro-fatty substitution around infundibular resection and patchy myocardial fibrosis may provide anatomical substrates of abnormal depolarization and repolarization causing reentrant ventricular arrhythmias. Recently, three-dimensional electroanatomical mapping (3D EAM) has allowed investigating the electro-anatomical status of the right ventricle . Radiation exposure during cardiac electrophysiological procedures is still a major concern. We report the first case of 3D mapping of the right ventricle in a postoperative ToF patient, with non-sustained symptomatic ventricular tachycardia, performed with a new module of the CARTO Ò 3 System—the CARTOUnivu TM Module—that combines, simultaneously, fluoroscopic images or cine-angiographic sequences with 3D cardiac mapping to allow real-time visualization of the electrocatheter during the 3D EAM reconstruction. Fluoroscopy-based detection of the radiopaque marker placed on the magnetic field generator (or location pad) ofFluoroscopy was used for a few seconds to confirm accurate correspondence between real and reconstructed catheter tip position. Procedure time was 150 min, mapping time lasted 40 min, and total fluoroscopy time was 30 s with only 10 s for 3D mapping. The same volume (140 ml) previously evaluated by cardiac MRI was mapped. A perfect match of the diastolic edges of the RV obtained either by cine-loop acquisition during contrast fluoroscopy and by the 3D EAM, was observed . Scar areas were identified only in the anterior–superior free wall of the RV. No ventricular arrhythmias were inducible at baseline or during isoproterenol infusion and no complications occurred. In conclusion, CARTOUnivu TM Module can integrate, in real time, fluoroscopic images/cine-angiography in virtual biplane view and the 3D EAM allowing a contextual visualization of position and movement of all electrocatheters. This can further increase the accuracy of the 3D EAM in very complex-operated congenital heart diseases, in which the anatomy is modified by the surgery and hemodynamic sequelae, even decreasing radiation exposure for both patients and EP lab staff.
