The female patient (born in 1996) was first hospitalized because of muscle weakness leading to walking difficulties at age of 5 years, although the term " neonatal hemiplegia " appeared on a medical certificate issued at age of 1 year, without further details. Laboratory findings revealed normal potassium levels and an elevated creatine-phosphokinase (CK) level of 596 U/L (upper limit of normal: 195 U/L), which returned to normal in 6 days. No special investigations other than orthopaedic consultation were initiated, and the patient's symptoms ceased without consequences. In later years, she was admitted to different hospitals several times with symptoms of painless muscle weakness and proximal, asymmetric hemiplegia with sudden onset and variable duration. Serum potassium levels were in normal range in the majority of cases, except for one occasion when a below-normal potassium level (3.1 mmol/L) was noted. During episodes of muscle weakness, elevated CK levels were registered in the range of 507–629 U/L, with a normal CK-MB fraction, normalizing within days. Neurological examinations including lumbar puncture and liquor chemistry, cerebral and cervical magnetic resonance imaging, electromyography, electroencephalography, and electroneuronography were normal. Symptoms usually ceased within days with potassium and magnesium supplementation, and the patient was discharged in good condition every time. Cardiac arrhythmia was noted first at age of 9 years, which consisted of frequent multifocal premature ventricular beats (PVB) or short runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia on the resting ECG . The arrhythmia did not lead to symptoms (palpitation, dizziness, or light-headedness) and no syncope ever occurred. Echocardiography proved normal cardiac structure and function. Twenty-four hour Holter monitoring revealed 13% PVB, 1% couplets, and numerous short runs of ventricular tachycardia; the longest consisting of 11 beats with a frequency of 148 beats/ min. Propranolol and magnesium supplementation was started, which had no effect, then amiodarone treatment was initiated. Amiodarone decreased the number of PVBs, but did not lead to a complete elimination of arrhythmia; furthermore, it induced thyreotoxicosis, and therefore had to be stopped. Sotalol treatment was started, which showed some effect. Based on the available clinical data and the characteristic appearance of the proband (short stature, microcephalia, facial dismorphic features including low set ears, micrognathia), clinical diagnosis of Andersen–Tawil syndrome was raised at age of 15 years. On last follow-up at age of 18 years, the patient was alive with unchanged clinical status. As the patient was abandoned by her parents and was brought up by her maternal aunt, no family members were available for clinical or genetic screening, apart from the maternal aunt who exhibited normal ECG and echocardiography.
