Patients The family is originated from Lebanon with two children of non-consanguineous healthy parents . Family history is negative for cases of sudden cardiac death (SCD), arrhythmia, LQTS or gross neurological abnormalities. Electrocardiograms of both the father (who was found to be a p.G402S mosaic variant carrier) and the mother are unremarkable and show a normal QTc-interval. TheSanger sequencing traces validating the CACNA1C c.1204G > A mutation in both affected children as well as the mosaic mutation in the father. (c) Restriction assay using enzyme DdeI, specifically cleaving PCR amplicons carrying the c.1204G > A mutation. A clear restriction pattern was found for both affected children, no restriction pattern was found for the apparently healthy mother and a mosaic restriction pattern was found for the father. father's 6 siblings who live in Lebanon were not investigated (no ECGs). Both children present with significantly prolonged QTc-intervals (Patient 1 468–547 ms, Patient 2 476–650 ms), T-wave alternans and recurring life threatening arrhythmia since early childhood. After receiving the molecular diagnosis, mild partial syndactyly of the second/third toe, which usually is regarded as a normal variant, was found in both patients as well as in their father. It is speculative whether this finding could be related to the p.402G > S mutation, since the few reported patients carrying this mutation do not show syndactyly . Both children do not meet the full clinical criteria for classical TS apart from the prolonged QTc interval: Their hearts are structurally and functionally normal, they do not show any cranio-facial dysmorphies, they do not suffer from recurrent infections and no other major anomalies as manifested in TS (type 1) can be detected (see Additional file 1). The index patient is the 8 year old daughter (Patient 1) who presented VF/ TdP leading to cardiac arrest and was successful resuscitated at the age of 2 months. Antiarrhythmic therapy was started with beta blockers, nicorandil and mexiletine, controlling TdP best with high doses of propranolol and mexiletine. At the age of 4, her parents agreed to have an internal cardiac defibrillator (ICD) implanted, who delivered 2 adequate shock since then. The patient developed generalized epilepsy which is currently well controlled with levetiracetam. Today, at eight years of age, the patient is unable to speak and learned walking only at the age of seven. She additionally shows evidence of a vast precocious puberty which is not known to be associated with TS. The neurological findings (epilepsy, developmental delay) are rather attributed to hypoxic brain damage caused by cardiac arrest and resuscitation than being part of TS. Especially since the early neonatal development of the patient has been entirely unremarkable. Moreover, patient 2 unlike his sister reached the milestones of psychomotor development at the expected times and clinical workup failed to show any neurological abnormalities. He is the second child of the family and is now six years old. He developed VF/ TdP at the age of 3 years and was successfully resuscitated using his sister's automatic external defibrillator and received an ICD two months later. As his sister, he was put on propranolol and mexiletine. Since then, the patient has had frequent episodes of VF and non-sustained ventricular tachycardia and has received overall more than 40 adequate and appropriate shocks. His antiarrhythmic therapy has been modified several time, he was administered several antiarrhythmic drugs (AAD): high-dose betablockers, potassium-, magnesium-and calcium-antagonists as well as Vaughn-Williams class Ia, Ib and Ic agents. None of these AAD combinations shortened QTc-intervals or reduced VF episodes. Left-and right-cardiac sympathetic denervation could also not reduce the arrhythmic episodes. Today, quality of life of both patients is still significantly affected by the continuing relapses of VF, especially in the boy, who seems to be especially insusceptible to standard therapeutic approaches. Written informed consent was obtained from each family member for the subsequent studies according to the German Genetic Diagnostic Law (GenDG).
