A 61-year-old man was transferred to our hospital with the complaints of dizziness, severe nausea and abdominal discomfort in early May. He had a medical history of traumatic brain injury 10 years previously, however, he had recovered without any significant complications. He did not have any coronary risk factors except age. About one hour previously, he consumed approximately 50 g of Rhododendron flowers in the garden of his home. His family reported that this flower blooms annually in their garden. The patient claimed to his family that he obtained information from a local botanical book that this flower is safe for consumption, and he decided to eat the flower in the raw state on this occasion. On presentation, his consciousness was alert but he was severely ill due to nausea and abdominal discomfort. His body temperature was 35.5, blood pressure 80/50 mmHg, heart rate 45 beats per minute, and respiratory rate 24 per minute. The oral mucous and skin were dry. Mild epigastric pain was noted. Neurological abnormalities were not obvious. A blood test showed mild kidney injury (creatinine 1.42 mg/dL), however, other hematological and biochemical results including cardiac enzymes were within the normal ranges. A chest X-ray was unremarkable. An electrocardiogram showed sinus bradycardia with a heart rate of 47 beatsper minute . Echocardiography showed normal left ventricular systolic function without significant valvular disease. His family brought the remnant of the flowers which the present patient had ingested . According to the clinical course, acute intoxication of some species of Rhododendron was suspected. This flower was sent to the local health authority and identified to be Rhododendron japonicum. Because the patient was hypotensive and bradycardic, fluid resuscitation with normal saline (0.9% sodium chloride) and 0.5 mg of intravenous atropine was administered. The patient's blood pressure and heart rate responded promptly. Four hours later, 0.5 mg atropine was readministered intravenously because his heart rate lowered below 50 beats per minute. After the second injection of atropine, his vital signs stabilized and the symptoms had disappeared 12 hours later. An electrocardiogram examined 24 hours after admission showed a normal sinus rhythm with a heart rate of 86 beats per minute . The patient was discharged without any significant complications. The clinical course is summarized in .
