A 73-year-old paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) male patient (CHADSVASC, 3; HASBLED, 3) was referred to our center for staged AF ablation and left atrial appendage (LAA) closure. Previously, the patient had experienced gastric bleeding on Apixaban. Therefore, we agreed with the patient on additional LAA isolation during AF ablation if electric triggers from the LAA were present. After a single transseptal puncture, selective pulmonary veins (PVs) and LAA angiographies were performed. The 28 mm second generation cyroballoon (CB2; Arctic Front Advance, Medtronic, USA) was advanced into the left atrium. The inner lumen circumferential multipolar catheter (Achieve 20 mm, Medtronic, USA) demonstrated automatic activity in the LAA. Therefore, the CB2 was inflated and positioned at the LAA ostium aiming for complete occlusion . During CB ablation, progressive LAA spike delay resulted in LAA isolation (time to block, 73 s; CB temperature, −48°C; ). Cryoballoon freeze was limited to 180 s, reaching a minimal temperature of −57°C. The left phrenic nerve, because of its proximity to the LAA, 1 was monitored by fluoroscopy during spontaneous breathing. After further conventional CB2 PV isolation, total procedure-and fluoroscopy-time were 70 and 12.0 min, respectively. Interestingly, transesophageal echo demonstrated a substantial ablation-induced acute edema of the LAA-PV ridge ( and D). Discharged on low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin 0.8 mL twice a day), the patient was rescheduled for elective percutaneous LAA closure after 6 weeks. During the LAA closure procedure, a 15 mm spiral catheter (Lasso, Biosense Webster) confirmed permanent LAA isolation (entrance+exit block; ). The postablation LAA-PV ridge edema resolved, and a 24 mm Watchman (Boston Scientific, USA) device could be implanted without any residual LAA flow or procedural complications . The low molecular weight heparin was discontinued and substituted by dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin/clopidogrel) for additional 6 weeks.
