An 11-week-old 3.8 kg girl presented with signs of heart failure and shock. Her electrocardiogram (ECG) showed narrow complex long RP tachycardia with a heart rate of 224/min. Deeply negative P waves in the inferior leads indicated permanent junctional reciprocating tachycardia . Echocardiography showed a severely dilated poorly contracting left ventricle, with no congenital heart abnormality. Adenosine terminated the arrhythmia, but tachycardia reinitiated immediately. The arrhythmia persisted after a 5 mg/kg loading dose of amiodarone, amiodarone infusion at 10 mcg/kg/min for 10 h and a 500 mcg/kg loading dose of esmolol followed by an esmolol infusion at 25 mcg/kg/min. During a second 5 mg/kg loading dose of amiodarone, tachycardia terminated, but this was followed by profound bradycardia and loss of cardiac output. The amiodarone and esmolol were stopped and external cardiac massage was carried out. The tachyarrhythmia recommenced at the same time as cardiac output returned. Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenator support was commenced, using the right carotid artery and jugular vein. Thereafter, sinus rhythm could not be maintained despite amiodarone 35 mcg/kg/min and flecainide 2 mg/kg. The patient developed severe pulmonary oedema secondary to left ventricular dysfunction, exaccerbated by the increased afterload caused by the extracorporeal membrane oxygenator. Radiofrequency ablation was undertaken one week after presentation. A 5 French Marinr 4 mm tip ablation catheter (Medtronic Inc.) was used to map the tricuspid vale annulus in tachycardia. Earliest atrial activation was in a posteroseptal position at the mouth of the coronary sinus. Tachycardia terminated during radiofrequency applications at 50 and 608C at this site, but could be easily reinduced. A third lesion in a slightly more medial position at 708C, delivering a power of 10 W, for 30 s, terminated tachycardia immediately. A 30 s 'bonus' lesion was delivered at the same site. Thereafter tachycardia could not be induced. The patient was weaned from extracorporeal membrane oxygenator support after 2 days, but continued to require intensive care owing to pulmonary haemorrhage. The tachyarrhythmia recurred after 9 days and was successfully ablated 22 days after the first procedure, with three further lesions delivered on the atrioventricular valve ring just posterior to the mouth of the coronary sinus. There was no further recurrence on 5 year follow-up. A 14-month-old 13 kg boy presented with a history of pallor and reduced tone. His ECG showed broad complex tachycardia with a heart rate of 320/min, a left bundle branch block morphology and an inferior QRS axis. Ventricular tachycardia was suspected when 400 mcg/kg of adenosine failed to terminate the arrhythmia. A 5 French endocardial temporary pacemaker lead was passed down What's new? † Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation provides a haemodynamically stable and safe platform for antiarrhythmic drug therapy and radiofrequency ablation in infants with incessant tachyarrhythmias. † When extracorporeal support has been instituted and control of the tachyarrhythmia cannot be readily achieved with drugs, radiofrequency ablation should be strongly considered, to avoid the risk of tachycardia recurrence following decannulation as extracorporeal support is difficult to reinstitute when one carotid artery and jugular vein have already been ligated. † When using extracorporeal support, power delivery may be low during ablation lesions because of inadequate cooling of the catheter tip. Reducing or stopping flow in the extracorporeal circuit may not provide adequate cooling and an irrigated tip catheter may be required. While temperature limited low power lesions may permit acute success, there are frequent recurrences. A repeat procedure may need to be performed relatively promptly.Radiofrequency ablation on ECMO in sick infants the oesophagus and connected to one of the praecordial leads on an ECG to generate a unipolar signal showing atrial activation. The atrial ECG showed 2:1 ventriculoatrial block, with an atrial rate of 160 per min, confirming the diagnosis of ventricular tachycardia . Echocardiography demonstrated normal cardiac structure, impaired function, but no ventricular dilation. Tachycardia persisted after a 5 mg/kg loading dose of amiodarone and direct current (DC) cardioversion up to 30 Joules. External cardiac massage was required after a loading dose of esmolol resulted in temporary loss of cardiac output. Venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenator support was initiated via the right carotid artery and jugular vein. After a further amiodarone loading dose of 5 mg/kg, the tachyarrhythmia converted to a junctional rhythm with a rate of 150– 180 per min, but this quickly degenerated to ventricular tachycardia then ventricular fibrillation. Ventricular fibrillation persisted despite calcium chloride, magnesium sulphate, 50 Joule DC cardioversion and amiodarone 15 mcg/kg/min. The rhythm converted to ventricular tachycardia only after a 1 mg/kg bolus of lignocaine, lignocaine 0.9 mg/kg/h and further DC cardioversion. Following a 2 mg/kg bolus of flecainide the heart fibrillated again. Although DC cardioversion then restored sinus rhythm, flecainide was stopped as there was electromechanical dissociation. After 4 days in junctional rhythm, treated only with amiodarone 12 mcg/kg/min, the child was decannulated from extracorporeal support, with reconstruction of the carotid artery. However, 7 h after decannulation, ventricular arrhythmias recommenced, sometimes with loss of cardiac output requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation. For a further 36 h there were recurrent salvos of ventricular tachycardia resistant to all drug therapy, cooling to 358C and DC cardioversion. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenator support was therefore recommenced, with recannulation of the right carotid artery and jugular vein. Radiofrequency ablation was undertaken 9 days after presentation. All antiarrhythmic drugs were stopped one day before the procedure. A 5 French Marinr ablation catheter was introduced via the right femoral vein. Left femoral venous access was used for a 5 French decapolar catheter in the coronary sinus and a 4 French quadripolar catheter in the His position. Frequent ventricular ectopy with a morphology similar to the ventricular tachycardia was mapped conventionally and using electroanatomical imaging (Ensite NavX, St Jude Medical). Earliest ventricular activation was in the anterosuperior right ventricular outflow tract .Radiofrequency ablation proved ineffective as power delivery was limited to 8 W because the Marinr catheter quickly reached its temperature limit. This problem continued, even when extracorporeal support was temporarily stopped to increase flow through the right side of the heart to allow better cooling of the catheter tip. The ablation catheter was therefore changed to a 7 French Celsius B curve irrigated 4 mm tip catheter (Biosense Webster). Ablation at the same site achieved a power of 30 W and resulted in acceleration then termination of the tachycardia. Radiofrequency lesions were delivered for a total of 150 s. Following the procedure the patient remained in sinus rhythm and was successfully decannulated from extracorporeal support after 2 days. Cardiac function normalized within 24 h of ablation. There was no recurrence of tachycardia on 6 years follow-up.
A 6-week-old 4.1 kg baby presented with a 2 weeks history of poor feeding and reduced activity. There were signs of heart failure and low cardiac output. His ECG demonstrated narrow complex long RP tachycardia with a heart rate of 220/min. Deeply negative P waves in leads II, III, and aVF indicated permanent junctional reciprocating tachycardia. Direct current cardioversion terminated the tachycardia. Echocardiography in sinus rhythm demonstrated a dilated poorly functioning left ventricle, with no congenital heart abnormality. Tachycardia recurred after a few hours despite treatment with propranolol and digoxin. A 5 mg/kg loading dose of amiodarone did not terminate the arrhythmia. Owing to our previous experience with patient 1, the possibility of sudden haemodynamic collapse following further doses of amiodarone was recognized. An extracorporeal membrane oxygenator circuit was therefore primed before giving a second 5 mg/kg loading dose of amiodarone over 30 min. Tachycardia recommenced following cannulation and continued even after an 8 mcg/kg loading dose of digoxin, esmolol 200 mcg/ kg/min and amiodarone 5 mg/kg followed by an infusion of 15 mcg/ kg/min. Direct current cardioversion on this combination of drugs restored sinus rhythm. However, tachycardia recurred 2 days later when the esmolol dose was weaned to 50 mcg/kg/min and the amiodarone to 5 mcg/kg/min. Radiofrequency ablation was carried out 3 days after presentation. A 4 French quadripolar catheter was placed in the right ventricular apex and the tricuspid valve annulus was mapped in tachycardia with a 5 French Marinr ablation catheter. Earliest atrial activation was just posterior to the mouth of the coronary sinus. Three 30 s ablation lesions were delivered in this area, with a maximum temperature of 508C and power of 3 – 5 W. Tachycardia terminated during the first burn, but could be easily reinduced. Although tachycardia could not be reinduced after the second burn, ventricular pacing showed that pathway conduction persisted. Ventriculoatrial block was achieved 0.7 s after commencing the third radiofrequency lesion, a little lateral to the first ablation site .The patient was successfully weaned from extracorporeal support and decannulated 2 days after the ablation. Cardiac function had recovered completely 6 days after the procedure. There was no tachycardia recurrence on 19 months follow-up .
