A 33-year-old male, nondiabetic, nonhypertensive, presented with history of palpitation, chest discomfort, and fatigue of 6 hours duration. He had been otherwise healthy, not on any medications with no history of tobacco, alcohol, or drug use. At presentation, pulse rate was 144 beats per minute, irregular, blood pressure 96/60 mm Hg, and the rest of physical examination was unremarkable. Twelve-lead ECG revealed a wide complex regularly irregular tachycardia at a rate of 144 beats per minute, right bundle morphology, QRS duration of 200 to 220 ms, QRS axis alternating between +160° and −40°, QRS transition alternating from V3 to V6, and evidence of atrioventricular dissociation . Tachycardia was unresponsive to intravenous lignocaine, esmolol, amiodarone (300 mg during 1 hour), and 2 attempts of biphasic direct current (DC) cardioversion of 200 J. Because the tachycardia was incessant, patient was sedated, intubated, ventilated, and continued on intravenous amiodarone (900 mg/24 hours) with further 4 unsuccessful attempts at DC cardioversion. Tachycardia converted to monomorphic VT with occasional VT complexes of the 2nd morphology , which terminated 6 hours later while on infusion of amiodarone and lignocaine, and while he was being considered for radiofrequency catheter ablation. ECG in sinus rhythm was essentially normal , chest x-ray revealed superior mediastinal widening , and echocardiogram showed normal left ventricular function. Cardiac MRI was performed, which revealed focal areas of thickening and increased signal intensity on T2-weighted images. Early gadolinium enhancement was seen in the mid interventricular septum, anterolateral and anteroinferior walls, with the lesions having a target appearance with peripheral slightly hyperintense rim and central hypo intensity . Delayed gadolinium enhancement was found predominantly in the midmyocardium and epicardial in basal and lateral segments of the left ventricle. 18F-fluoro2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography scan revealed basal and midanteroseptal perfusion defect with intense FDG uptake in these regions suggestive of myocardial inflammation along with evidence of inflammation in the paratracheal lymph nodes . Serum biochemistry was normal including serum calcium, serum angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), digoxin, blood aconite levels (report received 2 weeks later), and IgG and IgM assays were negative for tuberculosis bacilli. Transbronchial lymph node biopsy revealed noncaseating granulomas suggestive of sarcoidosis . Patient was initiated on 1 g of methylprednisolone (Solumedrol) per day for 3 days intravenously and amiodarone infusion of 1 g/d was continued for 3 days after which it was switched to oral therapy and patient was extubated after 36 hours. Later, oral predinsolone was initiated at 60 mg/d for 2 months and was tapered to a maintenance dose of 10 mg/d for 2 years and stopped after a normal repeat positron emission tomography FDG scan. A single chamber implantable defibrillator was implanted after 5 days of VT-free interval. Device-based testing was performed at a single drive train of 600 ms and ≤2 extrastimuli which did not induce the VT and a single shock at 14 J terminated induced VF.
