A 24-year-old man, working as a professional dancer, was referred for investigation of recurrent syncopal episodes that were related to physical exercise. His 12-lead surface ECG revealed frequent monomorphic PVCs suggestive of LVOT origin (early precordial transition before V3, high R wave amplitudes in inferior leads, QS in aVL more negative than in aVR, and deep S in lead I) (PVC-1 in ). According to Holter monitoring, PVCs accounted for 20% of all QRS complexes and sporadic episodes of non-sustained VT of the same morphology were also documented. Physical examination was unremarkable and transthoracic echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging studies excluded structural heart disease. An electrophysiological study and ablation procedure was performed aiming at ablation of the focal source. At baseline, the monomorphic PVCs were frequent. Activation mapping and pace mapping in the LVOT was performed using ablation catheter (Navi-Star™ ThermoCool™, Biosense Webster Inc.) introduced retrogradely via the right femoral artery. A three-dimensional shell of the aortic root was created using CARTO system (CARTO XP™, Biosense Webster, Diamond Bar, CA, USA). Tagging of mid-portions of individual aortic sinuses and the ostium of the left main coronary artery (LMCA) was performed with the guidance of intracardiac echocardiography (ICE) (AcuNav™ ultrasound catheter, Sequoia echocardiograph, Siemens Acuson, Mountain View, CA, USA). The earliest ventricular electrograms were obtained in the middle portion of the left coronary cusp (LCC) with prematurity of 30 ms before the QRS onset  and excellent pace map. This site was about 15 mm away from the ostium of LMCA. Radiofrequency ablation (power-control mode attwo closely related foci with similar ectopic activity and different coupling intervals appears to be less likely than our hypothesis on a change of the exit. In fact, the different coupling intervals of PVC-1 and PVC-2 from the same focus can be easily explained. Provided that there is a slowly conducting zone between both ablation sites at LCC and NCC and, more importantly, that the focus is located asymmetrically in this zone (distinctly closer to the LCC ablation site), then the change in exit route is essentially associated with prolongation of coupling interval of PVC. Those who are mathematics fans can surely estimate that the conduction time from the focus to NCC versus LCC ablation site should have been longer by ~65 ms to explain the coupling interval change of ~110 ms taking into account comparable reversal of signals during SR at both ablation sites. The phenomenon of preferential conduction, which played a substantial role in our case, speaks of the complexity of ventricular myocardial extensions both at the structural level (extent of these extensions and their connections) and functional level (conduction properties and refractoriness). Despite the general absence of ventricular musculature at the base of NCC due to the aorto-mitral continuity, the case demonstrates the slowly conducting interconnection between myocardial networks adjoining both LCC and NCC. It is also likely (although we have no direct evidence) that the focus was not ablated directly but merely isolated by creating conduction block at the only two potential exit routes. In general, the property of preferential conduction may cause PVCs from the LVOT to show variable electrocardiographic features according to the breakout sites. This adds to the limitations of ECG algorithms and pace mapping to predict the site of origin of LVOT arrhythmias. Concerning the change between PVC-1 and PVC-2 morphology, the decrease in R wave amplitude in the inferior leads was the most prominent, therefore such a change during radiofrequency ablation for outflow tract arrhythmia should prompt further mapping to search for another target in a different portion of the outflow tract . In contrast to our case, less prominent change in QRS morphology after ablation of LVOT arrhythmias was previously reported. This can be explained by multiple potential breakouts in other portions of the LVOT, for example in the region of LCC/RCC commissure, where ventricular myocardial extensions are more abundant (and all are connected to the LV myocardium) compared to the myocardial network at LCC/NCC region. In the previously reported cases of successful ablation of ventricular arrhythmia in the NCC, significant variations in the QRS morphology with variable precordial transition and inconsistent QRS morphology in aVL ranging between QS pattern, slightly positive QRS and monophasic R were observed. Although anatomical differences of individual patients and varying ECG electrode positioning may play a role, contributions from more than one exit site to QRS morphology could, at least partly, explain these variations depending on the volume of myocardium activated by each breakout site. For example, if the posterior exit site toward the His region is dominant, the QRS morphology will resemble right-ventricular arrhythmias arising from the proximity of membranous septum, on the other hand, if the anterolateral exit site to the subvalvular LVOT is dominant, the QRS will indicate more typical LVOT morphology, and if both exits participate equally, the intermediate fusion QRS morphology would be expected. In our case, single catheter approach was utilized to map different areas of interest sequentially with the help of the electroanatomic mapping system and ICE guidance. The use of ICE allowed real-time visualization of the exact catheter position within the aortic cusps and their commissures. It also enabled us to identify the distance of ablation catheter tip from the coronary ostia in order to prevent complications. This case highlights the importance of mapping the NCC and RCC when RV mapping reveals the earliest activation at the His bundle region, as this will reduce risk of inadvertent damage to the AV conduction system.
