The parents were Japanese. The mother was 39 years old, with no history of prior pregnancy. She had suffered from schizophrenia since the age of 19 years. At 36 weeks and 4 days of pregnancy, she was admitted to National Hospital Organization Sendai Medical Center owing to a relapse of schizophrenia. On admission, she was agitated and her speech was incoherent. Her heart rate and blood pressure were 135 beats/min and 154/ 91 mmHg, respectively. Her blood cell counts were as follows: leukocytes, 8,900/μL (neutrophils 82.1%, lymphocytes 11.7%, monocytes 5.7% and eosinophils 0.3%); red blood cells, 4.69 × 10 6 /μL; hemoglobin, 13.0 g/dL;of glucose, hepatic enzymes, coagulants, creatine kinase and creatine, were normal, but the level of uric acid was high (7.6 mg/dL). No evidence of an inflammatory reaction or serum electrolyte abnormalities was observed. A chest X-ray and electrocardiogram showed no abnormal findings. She received an oral dose of 6 mg of risperidone, 150 mg of quetiapine, 7.5 mg of olanzapine and 1 mg of etizolam instead of the previously administered 48 mg of perospirone. That night, she experienced a generalized tonic seizure, which was controlled by intramuscular injection of 10 mg of diazepam. After 6 minutes, another generalized tonic seizure occurred, and magnesium sulfate was intravenously injected as a treatment for eclampsia. After 14 minutes, she vomited a large amount of food, and her oxygen saturation level soon dropped to 50% with bradycardia. Her pulse could not be detected, and a cardiopulmonary resuscitation team was immediately called. The team found that food was present in her airway at the time of intubation, and they successfully resuscitated her after 11 minutes of cardiac arrest. During the seizures, neither ventricular fibrillation nor torsade de pointes was observed. A computed tomography scan showed no cerebral hemorrhage and no pulmonary embolism. At the time of 1 hour and 7 minutes after her cardiopulmonary arrest, an emergency cesarean section was performed in the operating room. After the operation, she was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU), where she received hypothermia therapy to minimize brain damage. An electrocardiogram was normal. A chest X-ray revealed consolidation at the bilateral upper lung field . She received intravenous antibiotics for suspected aspiration pneumonia. Laboratory data, including levels of glucose, creatine kinase and cardiac enzymes, were normal. After 3 days, the patient was lucid, and she left the ICU. On the 13th day after admission, an electroencephalogram was normal. She was discharged without neurological disorders on the 51st day after admission. The newborn was a male with a birth weight of 2568 g. He received bag and mask ventilation at birth, and his Apgar scores were 5 at 1 minute and 8 at 5 minutes. The pH and base excess of his umbilical arterial blood gas analysis were low (7.046 and −13.4 mEq/L, respectively). He was admitted to our neonatal intensive care unit. The Moro, tendon, grasp and light reflexes were normal and the muscle tonus was normal. He did not receive therapeutic hypothermia due to his neurological findings (Sarnat stage I) on admission and immediately improvements of his neurological findings, general condition and blood gas data, which were not suitable to Japanese manual of hypothermia therapy for newborn infant . On the 2nd day of life, he experienced a myoclonic seizure. No evidence of inflammatory reaction or serum electrolyte abnormalities, including calcium or coagulation disorders, was observed. Ultrasonography showed no intracranial hemorrhage. On the 7th day of life, electroencephalography showed sharp waves and single spikes occurring in the temporal or central region. On the 18th day of life, brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed bilateral small hyperintensities on T 1-weighted images in the basal ganglia . He had no seizures on anticonvulsant medication with phenobarbital. On the 37th day of life, he was discharged from our hospital. At 4 months of age, the patient exhibited favorable growth and development, and had no further seizures with continuous oral phenobarbital treatment.
