A 4-year-old boy with a history of asthma and 1 previous admission for an asthma exacerbation presented to the emergency department with 2 days of increased work of breathing. He had been treated with intermittent inhaled albuterol since the start of his illness. In the emergency department he received intravenous (IV) methylprednisolone, intramuscular epinephrine, 3 hours of continuous inhaled albuterol, and a mixture of inhaled helium and oxygen. Because of continued tachypnea and limited air entry on physical examination, he was admitted to the PICU for further management of status asthmaticus. Further medical management consisted of IV aminophylline, IV terbutaline, IV methylprednisolone, inhaled albuterol, and inhaled ipratropium. The patient also received bilevel positive airway pressure. On the day after his admission, the patient was incidentally noted to have multiple runs of nonsustained wide complex rhythm (each 5–15 beats) while receiving inhaled albuterol. His active medications included inhaled albuterol, IV methylprednisolone, and inhaled ipratropium. Telemetry showed a wide complex ventricular rhythm with ventriculoatrial (VA) dissociation consistent with AIVR (
. The ventricular rhythm was faster than, but within 10% of, the patient's preceding sinus rate. There was left bundle branch morphology with an inferior axis suggesting probable origin in the right ventricular outflow tract. The initial or final wide complex beat was often preceded byCASE REPORT a P wave and a short PR interval, suggesting a fusion beat, which is narrow relative to a purely ventricular beat ( . The patient was asymptomatic without hemodynamic compromise. Electrolyte levels were normal. An echocardiogram revealed normal intracardiac anatomy and normal biventricular function. A diagnosis of ventricular tachycardia (VT) was also considered, but the characteristics and asymptomatic nature of the arrhythmia were more suggestive of AIVR. The arrhythmia was unlikely to have been supraventricular tachycardia owing to its VA dissociation. Dosing of inhaled albuterol was transitioned from continuous to intermittent, and IV methylprednisolone was transitioned to oral prednisolone. The patient tolerated these medication changes well, and the arrhythmia resolved during the course of the hospitalization. The patient was discharged from the hospital 4 days after his admission. Three months after the patient's hospitalization, he was well without cardiovascular symptoms. A 24-hour Holter monitor recording was normal without ventricular ectopy.
