A 53-year-old man developed 3 unheralded syncopal episodes during 2 months, all lasting seconds to less than 1 minute; 1 episode developed while he was driving. Evaluation revealed intermittent sinus arrest with slow junctional escape. He was diagnosed with sick sinus syndrome. No other accompanying symptoms at that time were reported or noted. A pacemaker was implanted. He subsequently experienced episodic unpleasant olfactory hallucinations lasting 10 to 20 seconds. He also felt fatigued and developed intermittent lightheadedness yet pacemaker interrogation at that time revealed no significant abnormalities or pacing episodes. Two months following the pacemaker implantation, he had trouble remembering a recent family trip and was described as speaking gibberish. He was reportedly diagnosed clinically and electrographically with nonconvulsive status epilepticus and his cognition partially improved with levetiracetam. He continued to have mild memory problems and was intermittently anxious and uncharacteristically tearful. Serum VGKCc-Ab and LGI1-Ab levels were elevated ( . Five months following his pacemaker implantation, he was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone (1 g/d × 5 d) and an oral prednisone taper. Seven months after the pacemaker implantation, neuropsychological testing revealed mild impairment in verbal memory and processing speed. He subsequently received treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin and azathioprine and had steady cognitive improvement, allowing him to return to full-time work in a cognitively demanding profession. Two years after his pacemaker implantation, he had no detectable VGKCcAbs or LGI1-Abs.
A 64-year-old man developed lightheadedness with associated bradycardia lasting seconds and was diagnosed with sick sinus syndrome. No other accompanying symptoms at that time were reported or noted. A pacemaker was implanted. The next day, he developed episodic anxiety lasting hours and occurring daily. Two months following his pacemaker implantation, he became forgetful, compulsive, and delusional (daily thoughts of people stealing from him and intruders present in the neighborhood). He had a seizure with head version and tonic arm extension (laterality not recalled) and then bilateral clonic limb movements, followed 2 weeks later by a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. Investigations revealed persistent serum hyponatremia (
. Brain magnetic resonance imaging showed T2/fluid-attenuated inversion recovery hyperintensities ( . Neuropsychological testing demonstrated verbal memory impairment and slowed processing speed. He was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone (1 g/d × 5 d) with improvement. About 3 weeks later, his cognition worsened, leading to retreatment with intravenous methylprednisolone, intravenous immunoglobulin, and a prednisone taper over several months. Ten months after his pacemaker implantation, he had no cardiac symptoms (pacemaker interrogation revealed 10%-12% pacing with a baseline setting of 55 bpm). At 12 months, he was retreated with intravenous immunoglobulin and continued oral prednisone, with partial improvement of A 55-year-old woman developed discrete episodes of fear lasting several minutes that occurred 1 to 2 times daily for 1 to 2 months. Lorazepam was prescribed for panic attacks. One episode culminated in a 10-second loss of consciousness without postictal confusion. Two weeks later, panic episodes with loss of consciousness recurred with documented bradycardia and a sinus pause of 12 seconds. She was diagnosed with cardiogenic syncope secondary to bradyarrythmias and underwent pacemaker implantation (
. During the next 3 months, she appeared uncharacteristically apathetic, her short-term memory declined, and she experienced hallucinations. This was followed by a seizure with head deviation and subsequent generalized tonic-clonic activity. Her husband described episodes during which she lost awareness and reached for objects with her right hand, occurring about 6 times a day, each lasting a few seconds. Magnetic resonance imaging results showed T2/fluid-attenuated inversion recovery hyperintensities ( . Five months after her pacemaker implantation, she was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone (1 g/d × 5 d), followed by maintenance prednisone with a marked improvement in memory and panic episodes. After tapering off prednisone 2 years following the pacemaker implantation, her panic attacks insidiously recurred and she developed emotional lability.
