A 54-year-old man presented to his family physician's office with a 1-month history of decreased smell and change in taste. The patient noted difficulty smelling his coffee in the morning and described the taste of food as " rotten eggs. " The unpleasant sensations caused him to limit his caloric intake to broth, yogurt, and juice, which led to a reported weight loss of 15 to 20 lb over 6 weeks. He reported intermittent periods of nausea without vomiting and occasional heartburn. He tried a 14-day trial of omeprazole with minimal relief of heartburn and no improvement in appetite. The patient denied fevers, chills, chest pain, palpitations, shortness of breath, abdominal pain, diarrhea, headache, other neurologic symptoms, or any prior issues with taste or smell. The patient's medical history was notable for testicular seminoma, for which he had received radiation and a unilateral orchiectomy in 1989, with no evidence of recurrence. The only other surgical history was a tonsillectomy. Medications included a daily multivitamin and the recent trial of omeprazole, which the patient completed. Allergies included tetracycline and Merthiolate tincture. The patient was not a smoker and denied excess alcohol consumption. During physical examination, the patient was afebrile, had a pulse of 160 beats per minute (bpm) and a blood pressure of 104/90 mmHg. He appeared fatigued and worried but in no acute distress. Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination was unremarkable, with no visible nasal or oral lesions. Cardiac examination revealed an irregular rhythm, tachycardia, and no murmurs. Lung examination showed symmetric expansion with no abnormality upon percussion or auscultation. Neurologic examination was normal except for a diminished sense of smell, which was confirmed by his inability to identify coffee or tobacco. An electrocardiogram showed rapid atrial fibrillation at 180 bpm .His family physician sent the patient to the emergency department, where vital signs and physical examination remained unchanged. Laboratory test results at admission showed a white blood cell count of 7300/L, hemoglobin 15.4 mg/L, thyroid-stimulating hormone 2.430 IU/mL, troponin 0.02 ng/mL, and normal electrolytes, liver function tests, and coagulation studies. A plain chest radiograph showed clear lungs. The patient was started on a continuous infusion of diltiazem to control the rate of his atrial fibrillation. After a transesophageal echocardiogram showed an estimated left ventricular ejection fraction of 20% with no thrombus, the patient underwent external cardiac conversion. His cardiac rhythm was converted to sinus bradycardia at 50 bpm. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed subacute hemorrhagic infarcts in the left parietal lobe and in the right insular cortex . Magnetic resonance angiography showed the right distal middle cerebral arteries to be obscured due to laminar necrosis, whereas contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography of the neck was unremarkable. An electroencephalogram showed no signs of seizure activity. The patient was given aspirin as per a recommendation from neurology with the further recommendation that warfarin could be started within a few weeks with close monitoring. The patient was discharged from the hospital with a LifeVest, aspirin 81 mg daily, Lasix 20 mg daily, amiodarone 200 mg daily, digoxin 0.25 mg daily, metoprolol 75 mg orally every 8 hours, magnesium gluconate 500 mg orally every 12 hours, and sucralfate 3 times a day. The patient was followed as an outpatient by family medicine, cardiology, and neurology. Following a discussion with neurology several weeks after discharge, the patient was started on oral anticoagulation because he had a CHADS score of 2. The patient slowly regained his sense of taste and smell over the next 6 months, and his cardiac ejection fraction normalized as the rhythm of the atrial fibrillation was controlled. The patient was gradually able to increase his oral intake and regain the weight he had lost.
