A 62-year-old man was resuscitated from a witnessed ventricular fibrillation cardiac arrest preceded by acute chest pain. Return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) was achieved after about 30 min. On emergency department arrival, he was unconscious with his trachea intubated and lungs ventilated. He had unreactive pupils, and no motor response. A 12-lead electrocardiogram showed acute STsegment elevation. After primary percutaneous coronary intervention for a left anterior descending artery occlusion, he was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). The family were told his chances of survival were uncertain due to a risk of brain injury. Initial care in the ICU Targeted temperature management (TTM) was immediately started, maintaining a temperature of 36 °C for 24 h. Fentanyl and propofol were infused to facilitate temperature control. An electroencephalogram (EEG) recorded 4 h after the induction of TTM showed a burst-suppression pattern. The patient was rewarmed over 4 h and sedation stopped at 32 h after ROSC. At 72 h after ROSC, he was haemodynamically stable but still comatose. His pupils were reactive to light but there was no eye opening or motor response to pain. Short-latency somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) of the median nerve showed a bilaterally present N20 wave of normal amplitude. Serum levels of neuron specific enolase (NSE) were 56 and 41 mcg L-1 at 24 and 48 h, respectively. The EEG showed a diffuse, continuous, symmetrical delta pattern with no epileptiform activity. There was variation in both amplitude and frequency of the background EEG rhythm in response to a painful stimulus. Over the following 2 days, there was no change in the patient's neurological status. He was now febrile with a raised white blood cell count, new infiltrates on a chest radiograph, and worsening oxygenation. The family asked if the patient has any chance of recovery.
. Most patients with good outcomes recover consciousness within 72–120 h of arrest , and therefore the suggested timing for prognostication is 72 h from ROSC, or later . Results of earlier prognostic tests, such as status myoclonus and NSE levels, should also be considered at this time point. A careful clinical neurological examination is the cornerstone of prognostic assessment and it should be performed after major confounders, (e.g. residual sedation, neuromuscular blockade, metabolic derangements) have been excluded. Although absent or extensor motor responses to pain are not specific for predicting a poor neurological outcome , they are highly sensitive for identifying those patients who require neurological prognostication. To prevent the incorrect WLST, the false positive rate (FPR) of any predictor used should be as low as possible. Bilateral absence of either pupillary light reflex or N20 SSEP wave are currently the most robust predictors of poor outcome [FPR \5 % with 95 % confidence interval (CI) \5 %], and should be evaluated first. When, as in this case, these abnormal signs are absent, a set of less reliable predictors should be used. These have a FPR\5 % but wider 95 % CIs, and/or their definition/threshold is inconsistent in prognostication studies. These predictors should be used in combination and include early status myoclonus, high and increasing values of serum NSE, unreactive malignant EEG patterns, and evidence of diffuse hypoxic-ischaemic injury on brain CT or MRI. NSE thresholds for a 0 % FPR vary between studies . Although the value of 56 mcg L-1 in our case is above previously recommended thresholds , it is still compatible with neurological recovery in TTM-treated patients . A rising NSE with multiple measurements is more useful than a single NSE value at 24 h . The significance of EEG burst-suppression is modest immediately after ROSC, but increases during the subsequent 24 h . Presence of burst-suppression or status epilepticus and absence of reactivity on EEG after rewarming from TTM all predict a poor neurological outcome .Poor outcome very likely (FPR <5%, narrow 95%CIs) Two or more of the following:-Status myoclonus ≤48h aaer ROSC-High NSE levels-Unreaccve burst-suppression or status epilepcus on EEG-Diffuse anoxic injury on brain CT/MRI One or both of the following:-No pupillary and corneal reflexes-Bilaterally absent N20 SSEP wave ( 1 ) Indeterminate outcome Observe and re-evaluate No
