The patient was a 54-year-old woman employed as a cleaning attendant on bullet trains. She had been experiencing fainting sensations upon exertion for the past 2 years. This symptom had occurred only once or twice a month in the previous 2 years, but the frequency had increased to several times a week over the past year and continued up until presentation. However, no syncope occurred. When she was referred to a nearby clinic for phlegmon in her leg, sinus bradycardia (36 bpm) was incidentally discovered. Ambulatory Holter electrocardiography (ECG) monitoring performed at this clinic revealed a sinus pause of 8 seconds after cessation of atrial fibrillation (AF) and flutter (AFL) with a fainting sensation . Therefore, the patient was referred to our hospital with a diagnosis of symptomatic sinus node dysfunction. She had been diagnosed with dextrocardia during childhood. She was discovered to have heterotaxy during an appendectomy in her teens. She also had a cholecystectomy for cholecystitis in her twenties. Her family history was unremarkable without any congenital anomaly or heart disease. On admission, she was small and slightly obese with a height of 151 cm and body weight of 61.4 kg (BMI of 26.9). Her blood pressure and pulse rate were 98/46 mmHg and 30 bpm with a regular rhythm, respectively. On her physical examination, a systolic murmur was audible at the apex with a grade of Levine 2/6. No hepatomegaly or edema at her low extremities was observed. A blood examination was unremarkable except for a mild elevation of her serum NTproBNP at 279 pg/mL. A chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly, a cardiothoracic ratio (CTR) of 56%, and dextrocardia but no lung edema . We performed echocardiography, which showed no cardiac anomaly or valvular disease but dilatation of the coronary sinus. The 12-lead ECG on admission revealed marked bradycardia with junctional escapes . Although she had dextrocardia, the P wave vector was positive in II, III, aVF, and negative in I and both aVL and aVR, which suggested origin in the upperright atrium. The patient was diagnosed with sick sinus syndrome (SSS), and we thus decided to implant a cardiac pacemaker. Before implantation of the cardiac pacemaker, we performed chest and abdominal CT. We found multiple spleens located on the right side ( , arrow). Left isomerism was also diagnosed by bilaterally bilobed lungs . We diagnosed the patient with polysplenia syndrome and heterotaxia associated with SSS. Because polysplenia syndrome is typically associated with various venous anomalies, we performed CT with intravenous contrast material which revealed abnormal drainages of the superior and inferior vena cava (SVC and IVC): the right SVC drained directly into the right atrium, whereas the left SVC drained into the right atrium via the coronary sinus . Bilateral IVC met together at the hepatic level and drained into the right atrium . Because of a patent right SVC, pacemaker leads were easily implanted using the right cephalic vein approach. Atrial and ventricular leads were fixed at the right atrial free wall and the right ventricular apex using active fixation leads, respectively. After pacemaker implantation, we did not treat her AF/AFL because of well-controlled heart rates and no AF/AFL symptoms. In addition, she had no risk factors for thromboembolic events of AF; her CHADS2 score was zero. The patient's fainting symptoms disappeared after pacemaker implantation.
