A 48-year-old Caucasian woman with a history of MS, smoking, and palpitations was prescribed a 5-day course of intravenous methylprednisolone (1 gram per day administered intravenously) as part of ongoing intensive therapy for a flare of MS. Her predominant symptoms were pain and numbness in her legs. One year prior, she had had a course of PST for similar symptoms. On this occasion, she noticed that her heart rate felt slow on days 2 and 3 following steroid infusions, but this was transient, and she felt normal soon afterward. Her documented heart rate during infusion on those days ranged from 81 to 96 beats per minute (bpm). However, during the infusion on day 4, she noticed that her chest started to feel heavy, she felt slightly lightheaded, and had difficulty breathing. She was transferred to the emergency department for evaluation of these symptoms. Prior to the infusion, she had only pain and numbness in her legs; the chest pain and dyspnea started after the infusion. On subsequent questioning, she denied any recent changes in her list of home medications. She had been taking atenolol for inappropriate sinus tachycardia (IST) for several years, and had taken her usual dose of 25mg that morning. Her usual resting heart ranged from 100 to 120bpm prior to starting atenolol, and 80 to 100bpm after starting atenolol. On presentation to the emergency department, her blood pressure was 124/72mmHg, her pulse was 40bpm, and her oxygen saturation was 88% on room air. Results of the physical examination and laboratory tests were within normal limits. A 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) showed marked sinus bradycardia with a heart rate of 42bpm and normal PR (120msec), QRS (88msec) and QTc (402msec) intervals . A prior ECG, done 1 year earlier, had shown normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 78bpm . Cardiac biomarkers were normal and pulmonary embolism was excluded by a computed tomography (CT) pulmonary angiogram. She was admitted for observation on telemetry monitoring with supplemental oxygen therapy. With time, her oxygen saturation improved to normal on room air. Telemetry monitoring showed persistence of sinus bradycardia for 8 hours without atrioventricular block or ventricular arrhythmias. Our patient denied any further chest tightness or lightheadedness. The next day, her heart rate increased to normal sinus rhythm at 80bpm. An echocardiogram was performed and showed normal biventricular size and function without valvular abnormalities. Her fifth (and final) dose of intravenous methylprednisolone was withheld. As our patient remained asymptomatic with a normal heart rate, she was discharged from the hospital soon after on her usual home dose of atenolol.
