The 35-year-old male patient was an electrician and 5-year resident of Anajás, State of Pará, Brazil. He had no previous history of malaria or cardiovascular system disorders. After discharge from the hospital following spinal cord injury due to an occupational accident, the patient presented with a 5-day history of fever, chills, headache, and asthenia, and was again hospitalized. In the hospital, a thick blood smear was positive to P. vivax (30,000 asexual parasite forms/mm 3 ), and he was treated with 150mg chloroquine (4 tablets on the fi rst day and 3 tablets on the second and third days) plus 15mg primaquine (2 tablets/day for 7 days) according to the treatment regime proposed by the Health Ministry of Brazil 4. In the third day of hospitalization, primaquine was discontinued and the patient transferred to the intensive care unit due to worsening respiratory distress concomitant with signs of heart failure and petechial hemorrhagic suffusion on the thorax, abdomen and lower limbs . Normal white blood cell count observed at admission evolved to leukopenia (3,000/µL/mm 3 ), and hemoglobin decreased from 12.8g/dL to 8.9g/dL. Thrombocytopenia was present both at admission (20,000 platelets/mm 3 ) and in day 3 (15,000 platelets/mm 3 ). Chest radiography revealed pulmonary edema and cardiomegaly , Ecocardiography revealed left ventricular dilatation during systole (5mm, normal = 4mm) and diastole (73mm, normal = 56mm), decreased left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) (47%, normal > 58%), diffuse hypokinesia and mild mitral regurgitation . Blood and urine cultures were negative. Results of serological tests for dengue, yellow fever, infectious mononucleosis, Chagas disease, enterovirus (Coxsackie and Echovirus), human immunodefi ciency virus (HIV) and human T-lymphotropic virus (HTLV) were also negative. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to confi rm P. vivax infection was not performed. The patient gradually improved with antibiotic therapy (oxacillin and ceftriaxone), administered with antimalarials due to the clinical severe condition. He was also administered diuretics (furosemide and spironolactone), digoxin andcarvedilol and was maintained in negative fl uid balance. A thick blood smear was negative to Plasmodium sp to day 5, and after 12 days of treatment, he was discharged  in regular health and administered carvedilol (1 tablet, 2 times/day). Thereafter, he did not return to Anajás and was monitored on a monthly basis in the Laboratory of Clinical Malaria Essay at the Evandro Chagas Institute, in Ananindeua, State of Pará, Brazil, relapsing on the 46 th day post-treatment, with 3,500 asexual P. vivax parasite forms/mm 3. At this time, the standard treatment was reintroduced. A negative blood smear was observed on day 4, which persisted for up to 90 days with monthly controls. In May-2009, radiography showed normal lung transparency and normal cardiac area; electrocardiography showed normal sinus rhythm; and echocardiography showed a 34-mm ventricular diameter in systole, 50-mm left ventricular diameter in diastole, LVEF of 60%, and heart valves without morphologic or dynamic abnormalities.
