A 72-year-old man was admitted to our hospital complaining of severe dyspnea. He had been hospitalized 12 years ago for alcohol dependence, after which he stopped consuming alcohol. The patient had no history of diabetes. Prior to admission to our hospital, he had been admitted to a local hospital due to Legionella pneumonia and received doripenem hydrate for 14 days. During two months of hospitalization, he also received vancomycin hydrochloride for 16 days for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection of a central venous catheter. His body temperature had been 39.0°C on admission; however, it decreased to 37.0°C after antibiotic treatment. One month after discharge from the local hospital, he was admitted to our hospital with clear conciousness and a blood pressure of 96/54 mmHg, heart rate of 103 beats/min and body temperature of 36.7°C. A grade III/VI blowing diastolic murmur was heard maximally at the third to fourth intercostal space along the left sternal border. No Janeway lesions or Osler nodes were detected. The percutaneous oxygen saturation was 96% under oxygen inhalation via a face mask at 4 L/min. The following laboratory findings were obtained: a white blood cell count of 4.70×10 9 /L, red blood cell count of 2.93×10 12 /L, hemoglobin level of 8.0 g/dL, C-reactive protein level of 7.9 mg/dL, brain-type natriuretic peptide level of 2,231 pg/mL, procalcitonin level of 0.34 ng/mL and β-D-glucan level of 239 pg/mL. An electrocardiogram showed no significant abnormalities except for sinus tachycardia, while a chest X-ray disclosed cardiomegaly and pulmonary congestion. In addition, echocardiography showed a large area of vegetation (10×10 mm) on the non-coronary cusp of the aortic valve with moderate aortic regurgitation . Based on these findings, a diagnosis of infective endocarditis was suspected. As methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus had been isolated from a blood culture performed at the local hospital, intravenous antibiotic therapy with vancomycin (1.5 g/day) was started. Initially, surgical treatment was postponed because the patient was hemodynamically stable. However, on the second day after admission to our hospital, his blood pressure and arterial blood oxygen saturation both decreased. Furthermore, echocardiography demonstrated serious aggravation of aortic regurgitation; therefore, a biological prosthetic valve was urgently replaced 36 hours after admission. According to the operative findings, the vegetation adhered to the non-coronary and right coronary cusps of the native aortic valve. The results of a preoperative blood culture, which were evident on the second postoperative day, showed Candida parapsilosis as a causative pathogen. In addition, Candida parapsilosis was isolated from a culture of the area of vegetation. A histopathological examination showed a large fungal mass widely distributed around the site of vegetation, although with minimal infiltration of inflammatory cells . A blood culture performed on the fifth hospital day also isolated Candida parapsilosis. Consequently, liposomal amphotericin B (250 mg/day) was administered for nine weeks. Following nine weeks treatment and a negative blood culture, the antifungal agent was switched to fluconazole (100 mg/day). Thereafter, the patient demonstrated a favorable clinical course.
