In March 2012, a 43-year-old man presented to our unit with complaints of chest pain and tightness lasting for 10 days, with exacerbation and fever for the past three days. Two months earlier, he had been diagnosed with tuberculous meningitis on our unit and started on antituberculosis therapy with rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol. Unexpectedly, he presented with hepatic dysfunction during the early period of antituberculosis therapy. Considering the possibility that the patient's condition was related to the antituberculosis drugs, rifampicin was withdrawn and the other drugs were maintained. No abnormal findings were noted on routine clinical examinations, and the patient showed no evidence of skin eruptions or lymphadenopathy. Hematological examinations were notable for a platelet count of 36*10 9 /L (reference range, 100*10 9 /L to 300*10 9 /L), an EOSR of 29.8% (upper limit of normal, 5%), creatine kinase (CK)-MB level of 44I U/L (reference range, 38 to 174 U/L) and cardiac troponinT (cTnT) level of 11.63 ug/L (reference range, 0 to 0.15 ug/ L). Computed tomography revealed pericardial effusion ( arrow), whereas coronary angiography showed no abnormalities. During the early period of hospitalization, hematological examinations showed a decrease in the platelet count to 34*10 9 /L and an increase in the EOSR to 44.5%. With the adhibition of the cardiac drugs, the CK-MB level declined to 97 U/L, while the cTnT level returned to normal (15.37 ug/L). Unexpectedly, however, the patient experienced sudden cardiac arrest. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), mechanical ventilation and drug therapy (noradrenaline: 1.8 mg iv-vp st; methylprednisolone: 80 mg ivgtt st) were administered immediately. An endomyocardial biopsy showed moderately heavy inflammatory cell infiltrates dominated by eosinophils admixed with lymphocytes and histiocytes , fibroblast proliferation  and disarrangement of myocardial cells , which was conclusive for eosinophilic myocarditis. A case discussion was conducted, and the eosinophilic myocarditis was possibly considered to be induced by the antituberculosis drugs; therefore, the clinical medication regimen was adjusted. Ethambutol was replaced by ofloxacin and rifampicin was again applied in the antituberculosis regimen in addition to steroid therapy (prednisone: 20 mg, po, tid, 14 days) to alleviate the eosinophilia. The patient's condition stabilized and his symptoms improved. The dose of steroids was gradually reduced over two weeks [prednisone: from 20 to 5 mg (biweekly), po, tid]. After hospitalization for more than one month, laboratory examinations showed an EOSR of 0.5%, with a near-normal eosinophil count ( , line*, upper limit of normal) and normal CK-MB and cTnT levels. The patient was discharged from the hospital with a full recovery, and rifampicin, isoniazid and ofloxacin were used as antituberculosis therapy on an outpatient basis. In order to confirm the anti-inflammatory effects of treatment, shortterm steroid therapy was applied (prednisone: 5 mg, po, from tid to qd gradually over 14 days). At the nine-month follow-up visit, the eosinophil count was higher than normal and clinical symptoms of myocarditis were again detected following the withdrawal of steroid therapy . A short-term course of steroid therapy was therefore applied (prednisone: 5 mg, po, qd, seven days). Considering that theeosinophilia was mostly likely induced by isoniazid, only rifampicin and ofloxacin were used in the antituberculosis therapy regimen. Significantly, the eosinophil count returned to the normal range after isoniazid was discontinued ( , line*, upper limit of normal). In the later period of followup without isoniazid therapy, there were no signs of recurrence of eosinophilia. Both rifampicin and ofloxacin were used during the later period of antituberculosis therapy. The patient remained in stable condition and successfully completed the course of antituberculosis treatment and subsequent drug withdrawal. The above signs and symptoms indicate that isoniazid was most likely the causative agent of the acute eosinophilic myocarditis.
