The patient is a 37 year-old man. His medical history was characterized by surgery for frequent shoulder dislocations at the age of 24, a traumatic injury with rupture of anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and chicken pox at the age of 30. He is a cigarette smoker and has familial history of arterial hypertension and dyslipidemia. In 2010 he started complaining of weakness in his upper limbs and shoulder girdles  and an abnormal posture with cervical hyperlordosis. In a few months he developed progressive hypostenia at upper extremities with involvement of lower extremities and marked inability to perform daily activities (like dressing, driving, climbing stairs). On September 2011 he was admitted to hospital for medical investigations. At admission, resting heart rate (HR) and blood pressure were 92 beats per minute (bpm) and 100/70 mmHg, respectively. His body surface area (BSA) was 1.64 mq. Thoracic and heart auscultation of the heart were unremarkable and no signs of pulmonary or systemic congestion were detected. Neurologic findings included severe weakness and hypotonia of upper extremities, mild weakness of lower extremities with slight reduction of deep tendon reflexes, mild weakness of the neck extensor muscles, inability to reach Mingazzini position (I and II) without help and waddling gait. No facial weakness nor ophthalmoplegia were detected. Electromyography highlighted bilateral myogenic suffering of the shoulder girdle with signs of secondary reorganizations of motor units. Muscle biopsy of biceps brachii showed marked variation in muscle fiber size, atrophic type I fiber predominance and marked disarray of contractile proteins and Z-disks; multiple cytoplasmic nemaline rods were visible in atrophic fibers with Gomori trichrome staining. Electron microscopy  revealed numerous sarcoplasmic inclusions with the typicalultrastructural features of nemaline bodies. Nemaline myopathy was diagnosed. No familiarity for NM was proven. The analysis of gene mutations is still in progress. Electrocardiography (ECG) showed sinus rhythm, with a resting HR of 92 bpm and diffuse non-specific ST-T wave changes. Echocardiography showed left ventricular systolic dysfunction due to diffuse hypokinesia with a moderate reduction of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF = 42%), normal dimensions of cardiac chambers, moderate pericardial effusion with initial systolic collapse of the right atrium and no signs of pulmonary hypertension. Spirometry revealed the presence of a moderate restrictive syndrome. He also underwent a cardiopulmonary test (VO 2 max: 16.7 ml/kg/min) resulting in a moderatesevere reduction of functional capacity. Blood test findings were normal except for a mild increase in liver function tests without organic evidence of liver abnormality at abdomen echography and computed tomography (CT) scan. Autoanticorpal screening, viral hepatitis and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) serology were negative. A monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance was found. Pericardiocentesis was performed because of increasing pericardial effusion. No signs of infection or malignancy were noted on pericardial effusion on thoraco-abdominal CT scan. The patient was treated with enalapril (2.5 mg b.i.d.), carvedilol (6.25 mg b.i.d.) and spironolactone (50 mg/die). Target HF doses of beta-blocker wasn't reached because of symptomatic hypotension. LVEF at discharge was 50%. In the following months the patient started a program of intensive rehabilitation with a mild improvement in posture and gait although a worsening dysphagia was noted. After an initial improvement of clinical conditions, increasing signs of systemic congestion occurred [progressive positive fluid balance, tender hepatomegaly, jugular distension, bilateral perimalleolar pitting edema, pleural effusion, New York Heart Association (NYHA) , together with dyspnea during speech, requiring admission to Intensive Care Unit (ICU). At admission, ECG showed sinus rhythm with resting HR 105 bpm; blood pressure was 90/60 mmHg. Echocardiogram revealed worsened biventricular systolic function [LVEF = 20%; Tricuspid Annular Plane Systolic Excursion (TAPSE) 13 mm], with signs of initial eccentric remodeling (End Diastolic Volume/BSA = 99 ml/mq) and mild pericardial effusion. Treatment with dobutamine and furosemide infusion improved hemodynamics but after few days three cardiocirculatory arrests occurred due to ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia requiring external defibrillation. An implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) was then implanted for secondary prevention. Therapy was added with digossin, amiodarone and furosemide but patient's resting HR at discharge was still >70 bpm due to the aforementioned limitation in beta-blocker titration. On November 2011 a new rehabilitation program was started at our institution. Ivabradine (5 mg b.i.d.) was initiated with successful reduction of resting HR from 90 bpm to 55 bpm at 1 month follow up, also confirmed at sixth month follow up . Echocardiogram showed amelioration of left ventricular function at 3 month follow up (LVEF = 45%) . At 2,5 year follow up Echocardiogram revealed recovered biventricularfunction and significant reverse remodeling (LVEF = 55%; End Diastolic Volume = 41 ml/mq, TAPSE = 21 mm). The patient is now able to carry on the rehabilitation program, achieving net improvement in neuromotor control of the limbs and trunk and less limitations in daily activities. No more hospitalizations for HF occurred since optimization of medical therapy with ivabradine was started with reduction of HR. However a single hospitalization occurred for aspiration pneumonia; because of persistent dysphagia, a tracheostomy tube was inserted to protect airways from further aspiration. At clinical follow up ivabradine was well tolerated, thecompliance was satisfactory and no side effects occurred. The patient is regularly doing chest physiotherapy.
