A 29-year-old healthy female has had three pregnancies. The first pregnancy ended in a fetus mortus at 32 gestational weeks in 2005. This fetus was autopsied in Turkey, and the postmortem analysis revealed fetal cardiac insufficiency and ascites. Her second pregnancy in 2008 resulted in the birth of a healthy child. The parents of the baby were first cousins. The third pregnancy originated in 2011. In the first trimester ultrasound, a 5.1-mm nuchal translucency was found, but the mother did not opt for placental biopsy at that time point. In the anomaly screening at 22 weeks of gestation, the nuchal fold was 10 mm and the growth of the fetus was 2 weeks behind. Furthermore, cardiac size was increased. Fetal cardiac echocardiography was recommended. Fetal cardiac echocardiogram showed a structurally normal heart with mild cardiac enlargement (cardio/thoracic area ratio over 0.5). Further, significant biventricular cardiac hypertrophy was observed. The findings suggested fetal cardiomyopathy. No diastolic or systolic (fractional shortening (FS) 30 %) cardiac dysfunction was detected. Although there was mild tricuspid regurgitation, the flow profiles in the systemic venous Dopplers were normal . Amniotic fluid test showed normal female chromosomes (46, XX). Based on the cardiac findings and family history, parents were informed that the prognosis of the fetus was likely to be poor. If the fetus would develop hydrops, there would be a high risk for fetal death. Close pregnancy follow-up was recommended. At 29 gestational weeks, at a routine follow-up visit, cardiac enlargement, biventricular symmetric hypertrophy, and cardiac function remained the same. However, the right pleural cavity contained a mild pleural effusion. The mother was treated with antenatal corticosteroids for fetal lung maturation due to increased risk of preterm labor. Three weeks later (at 32 gestational weeks), the massive pleural effusions, fetal skin edema, and mild cardiac systolic compromise were detected (FS 24 %). Fetal lungs were compressed. Due to hydrops and suspected fetal asphyxia, pleural puncture and delivery were initiated . After birth, remarkable neonatal lactatemia (fP-lactate 6– 15 mmol/l) and metabolic acidosis (pH 6.95–7.12, BE −15–(−21)) were noted. Acidosis persisted and did not response to any treatment procedures. A neonatal cardiac ultrasound showed symmetric hypertrophy of both ventricles. Furthermore, there was obvious left ventricle noncompaction (an end systolic ratio of noncompacted to compacted layers of >2). Intensive care was withdrawn because of lung and heart failure despite maximal support. Parents declined fetal autopsy. Postmortem brain MRI suggested that the cerebral cortical gyri were poorly formed, particularly in the frontal and temporal region. The cortical structures were poorly developed suggesting microcephaly Bwith simplified gyral pattern,^ particularly in frontal and temporal regions. In diffusion brain imaging, the diffusion was limited to the thalamic and basal ganglia regions. However, this finding might only be a postmortem change. The cerebral ventricle sizes were normal. Suspicion of fatty acid β-oxidation cycle and TFP deficiency was raised after urinary organic acid analysis. Increased concentration of long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-carnitines was detected suggesting deficiency of long-chain 3-hydroxyacylcarnitine dehydrogenase. As a first step, fibroblasts cultured from a skin biopsy of the baby revealed that the Finnish founder mutation was not found in the HADHA gene. The molecular genetic analysis was continued in the academisch medisch centrum (AMC) laboratory (Amsterdam, Netherlands), and a homozygous gene defect in the HADHB gene, c1109+243_14338-703del, was revealed in the fetus. Both parents were heterozygous carriers of the same mutation. The mutation resulted in the most severe type of TFP defect with a lethal mitochondrial disease, including cardiomyopathy. In this case, there were no therapeutic options. Genetic counseling was offered to the parents. The disease is recessively inherited, and in each pregnancy of the couple, there is a 25 % risk that the baby inherits the mutation in a homozygous state, in which case the baby will get TFP deficiency. Respectively, in each pregnancy, there is a 75 % possibility that the baby is healthy regarding this disease. During pregnancy, the genetic status of the fetus is possible to determine from chorionic villus or amniotic fluid samples. There is a sampling-related miscarriage risk of about 0.5 %. If the fetus has inherited the mutation in a homozygous state, and as a result has TFP deficiency, termination of the pregnancy is an option. Fetal TFP deficiency can also induce potentially lifethreatening diseases featuring acute fatty liver (AFLP) or hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets (HELLP) in the mother.
