A 33-year-old woman presented to our hospital with a 2week history of headache, palpitations, chest pain, general fatigue and dyspnea. She had undergone a 6-day treatment course for pneumonia at our hospital 1 month earlier and had undergone an appendectomy at 10 years of age. She reported no episodes of syncope or cardiac disease and had no family history of syncope or hormonal diseases. Her body weight had been maintained at approximately 57 kg for several years and her appetite and bowel movement were normal before she presented to our hospital. However, she exhibited near-syncope at the hospital and an electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed an intermittent ventricular rhythm with a heart rate of 60 beats per minute  and an inverted T wave in the V1-V3 leads during the sinus rhythm at a heart rate of 72 beats per minute . Her blood pressure was 102/58 mmHg and her body temperature was normal. The hematological and serological examination results demonstrated an elevated leukocyte count (10,780 u/L) and positive troponin T. However, the creatine kinase CK-MB levels were within the normal ranges (CK: 145 IU/ L and CK-MB: 17 IU/L). The chest radiography findings were also normal. Two-dimensional echocardiography demonstrated a normal-sized left ventricle (LV) and slight hypokinesis of the middle portion of the anterior and anteroseptal wall with an ejection fraction (EF) of 69%. The patient was then admitted to our hospital. She briefly experienced abdominal pain at midnight on the day of admission. The day after admission, her systolic blood pressure was decreased to 70-90 mmHg. Twodimensional echocardiography revealed severe diffuse hypokinesis except for in the apex and basal wall and an EF of 22%, which was suggestive of reverse takotsubo cardiomyopathy . The ECG performed during the sinus rhythm on the day after admission showed an increased in the heart rate to 99 beats per minute and an inverted T wave in the V2-V6 leads . The chest radiography findings revealed the appearance of lungs congestion . The patient's CK and CK-MB levels had also increased [creatine phosphokinase (CPK): 258 IU/L and CK-MB: 35 IU/L]. Computed tomography (CT) was performed to investigate the abdominal pain and revealed a round 40 mm ×40 mm lesion with well-defined margins in the left abdomen . Abdominal echocardiography also determined that the mass lesion comprised multiple nonhomogeneous, cystic lesions . These results suggested an extra-adrenal pheochromocytoma. After obtaining informed consent, we performed catheterization. The right ventricular pressure and LV end diastolic pressure (EDP) were evaluated [pulmonary artery (PA) = 36/renaline, and dopamine in the necrotic lesion exudate were 30.14 ng/mL, 284.36 ng/mL, and 0.34 ng/mL, respectively, and a pathological assessment confirmed the presence of ectopic pheochromocytoma. All of the urinary catecholamine levels normalized thereafter . The patient has not experienced syncope since undergoing beta-blocker therapy after the surgical treatment.
