The first patient was prenatally diagnosed at 24 weeks of gestation with interruption of the aortic arch (IAA) type B, ventricular septal defect (VSD), and left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction. This LVOT obstruction consisted of valvar and subvalvar aortic stenosis and a hypoplastic ascending aorta. Because of a low birth weight (2.6 kg), the patient was initially stabilized by a hybrid palliative procedure (bilateral pulmonary artery banding and ductal stent placement).The isolated right subclavian artery (RSA) was recognized during the hybrid palliative procedure. One month later and with a body weight of 4 kg, the patient underwent a modified Yasui operation, with debanding of the PA and RSA ligation. Three weeks later, he underwent closure of a residual VSD together with a tricuspid valvuloplasty for tricuspid regurgitation. Follow-up is now 2.5 years and complete. There are no residual defects and the child is clinically well. Good arterial pulsations are present in the right arm and there is no difference in arm length. The second patient presented two days after birth in poor condition. Echocardiography revealed a closing ductus, IAA type B with VSD, and significant LVOT obstruction . Similar to the first case, the LVOT obstruction was caused by posterior deviation of the outlet septum, a small aortic valve, and a hypoplastic ascending aorta. The RSA was observed to originate from the right PA. Intravenous Prostin was started immediately along with intravenous dobutamine, resulting in an improvement in the patient's clinical condition, reduction in the serum lactate, and return of the femoral artery pulsations. Three days later at a weight of 3.0 kg, he was stabilized by bilateral PA banding with continuation of Prostin. Three and a half months later, a modified Yasui operation was performed when he weighed 4.5 kg. The RSA was reimplanted in the aorta. Follow-up is now 11 months. The patient is still in hospital primarily because of bronchomalacia. Recoarcation of the aorta was managed successfully with stent deployment in the aortic arch. His cardiac condition is stable and
