E xtracorporeal life support has evolved to become a viable support option in patients with acute cardiac failure. Tailored mechanical circulatory support (MCS) can now be provided to patients using existing extracorporeal life support devices. 1 We report the successful use of peripheral venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) to provide MCS to a patient with acute 5-flurouracil (5-FU)–induced cardiomyopathy. 5-FU is a key component of adjuvant chemotherapy for colorectal cancer. It is also frequently used in the treatment of gastric, esophageal, pancreatic, breast, bladder, and prostate cancer. There is a wide range of cardiotoxicity with this 5-FU, including ischemia, vasospasm, arrhythmia, hypertension, Q-T interval prolongation, and acute cardiomyopathy and 5-FU–induced cardiac complications are not rare. 2 This case illustrates the crucial place of ECMO as a bridge to recovery in chemotherapy, cardiomyopathy, or decision making. A 32-year-old man began adjuvant treatment for colorectal adenocarcinoma with 5-FU continuous infusion after presumed curative bowel resection. He experienced stuttering chest pain from day 1 of therapy with progressive shortness of breath. His risk factors for cardiovascular disease included a positive family history of ischemic heart disease and previous methamphetamine use. He presented to the emergency department in a peripheral hospital on completion of his first cycle, where he was noted to be in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response alternating with sinus tachycardia with inferolateral ST elevation. Cardiac troponin was mildly elevated and a presumptive diagnosis of 5-FU–induced cardiotoxicity was made. Sublingual glyceryl trinitrate, oral atenolol, and amlodipine were administered. After this, the patient became hypotensive, with cool and clammy peripheries. He was commenced on dobutamine and noradrenaline infusions and transferred to our center. Urgent cardiac catheterization confirmed angiographically normal coronary arteries . His left ventricular enddiastolic pressure was elevated at 30 mm Hg. An intra-aortic balloon pump was inserted through the left femoral artery. Transthoracic echocardiogram revealed severe global dysfunction with an ejection fraction of 10% to 15% with normal valves and no pericardial effusion. There was no evidence of significant dilation or thinning of ventricular chambers, thus inferring an acute and potentially reversible process . The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit with severe cardiogenic shock despite intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation and high doses of dobutamine (10 μg/kg per minute), noradrenaline (0.25 μg/kg per minute), and adrenaline (0.25 μg/kg per minute). There was evidence of end-organ malperfusion with increasing lactate, altered mentation, and early hepatic and renal dysfunction. In the face of impending circulatory collapse, peripheral venoarterial ECMO was instituted as a bridge to recovery. He was deemed unsuitable for cardiac transplantation because of underlying malignancy requiring chemotherapy. Under controlled light sedation and local anesthesia the patient was placed on venoarterial ECMO by percutaneously inserting a 25 Fr multistage cannula positioned in the right atrium via the left femoral vein for access and a 16 Fr cannula (Maquet) via right femoral artery for return of oxygenated blood. A retrograde arterial blood flow cannula was inserted in the right femoral artery distally to maintain limb perfusion. ECMO flows were set at 3.5 L/min. Unfractionated heparin was initiated by bolus 1000 U followed by 800 U/h, targeting an Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time 80 to 100 seconds. The patient was awake and spontaneously breathing for the duration of MCS. Soon after peripheral venoarterial ECMO was commenced, there was rapid improvement in hemodynamics; in addition, markers of end-organ perfusion (lactate, renal, and hepatic indices) improved. This enabled prompt weaning of vasoactive agents. The intra-aortic balloon pump was removed day 3 in intensive care unit. Antifailure therapy was introduced (ramipril, spironolactone) and doses slowly increased as tolerated. Serial transthoracic echocardiograms revealed improvement in cardiac function. MCS support was ceased on day 6
