!
We here report on a 58-year-old Caucasian with acute liver failure derived from newly diagnosed chronic hepatitis B infection. Initially, the patient was referred to our department from a local hospital with clinical signs of acute liver decompensation (increased ascites, icterus and abnormal fatigue). In the medical history a type II diabetes, arterial hypertension with esophageal varices grade I and a gastroesophageal reflux disease was found.plantation (high urgency status). After two days OLT was performed without complications (end-to-end anastomosis of the vena cava, end-to-end anastomosis of the portal vein, lienalis artery patch, side-to-side anastomosis of the bile duct with T-drain insertion). Intraoperative hepatitis B-immunoglobulin was given intravenously in the standard dosage. The immunosuppressive regimen was based on tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil and corticosteroids. For antiviral therapy lamivudin and tenofovir were administered. The postoperative course was uneventful with a sufficient graft function. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 30 with normal liver function values. After 105 days the patient was readmitted to our hospital due to retrosternal pain. Acute coronary syndrome was excluded by laboratory analyses and inconspicuous ECG. A chest X-ray showed no abnormalities, while infection parameters were moderately increased (C-reactive protein level: 143.57 mg/L, leukocytes: 12.9 GPT/L). These findings led to the working diagnosis of " pleurisy " and the patient was treated with antibiotics and analgetics which eased the symptoms immediately. The patient was discharged after 3 days. After 22 days the patient was admitted again because of fever, recurrent chest and abdominal pain. Laboratory values showed a leukocytosis (10.7 GPT/L) and an increase in C-reactive protein levels (175.95 mg/L). Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen was performed and showed no pathologies in the abdominal cavity. The basal images of the thorax showed a suspicious lesion in the area of the left ventricle ( ● " ). Transesophageal echocardiography (TTE) showed an inflammatory appearing structure. Fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) showed increased glucose uptake pericardial and in the adjacent lung sections. A cardio-MRI (cardio-magnetic resonance imaging) scan revealed multiple lesions with a maximum diameter of 20 mm located in both the left and right ventricles ( ● " ). Endomyocardial biopsy gave no clear finding, lymphoma could be excluded by bone marrow biopsy and sputum examinations were inconspicuous. Microbiological, serological and virological tests for tuberculosis, borreliosis, echinococcosis, cytomegalovirus infection, Epstein–Barr virus infection and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection were negative. To exclude a malignant process, the patient received a left anterolateral thoracotomy with a partial resection of the myocardial tissue and lower left lobe of the lung because of infiltration for further diagnosis. Pathological findings confirmed an Aspergillus fumigatus infection. Further CT of the thorax showed multiple lesions in both pulmonary lobes. Medication with voriconazole (initial intravenous therapy was started with 6 mg/kg every 12 hours, maintenance oral therapy was 200 mg every 12 hours) and caspofungin (initial intravenous therapy was started with 70 mg every 24 hours, maintenance therapy 50 mg per day) was immediately initiated, and monitoring of the mass was performed by TTE and cardio-MRI. Immunosuppressive medication was reduced due to existing interactions with antifungal agents. Cardio-MRI followup showed a slight increase in size of the lesions. Therefore medication was switched to oral therapy with posaconazole (400 mg every 12 hours) and intravenous therapy with caspofungin (50 mg every 24 hours). Under this dual fungal treatment the lesion regressed and the patient could be discharged after two months in good clinical condition. At discharge therapy was switther regression of the mass ( ● " ). Therefore dual antifungal treatment was switched to oral posaconazole monotherapy (400 mg every 12 hours). Further follow-up showed complete reduction of the mass after eleven months. Antifungal therapy was stopped and after four months extensive imaging control, including cardio-MRI, TTE, FDG-PET and cranio-MRI were performed with no pathological results. Currently, the patient is seen in regular intervals in our outpatient clinic. 32 months after transplantation, liver function is sufficient as well as heart function remains normal.
