In June 2014, a 56-year-old man was admitted with infective endocarditis following a dental procedure. Blood cultures upon admission were positive for Streptococcus viridians, and the patient was started on appropriate antibiotics. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed severe mitral regurgitation with large vegetations noted on the mitral valve. The patient subsequently developed cardiogenic shock and heart failure, and an emergent insertion of extracorporeal circulation membrane oxygenation was necessary. After several days of cardiopulmonary support in the intensive care unit (ICU), the patient underwent mitral valve replacement. His postoperative course was prolonged and complicated, including respiratory failure, liver failure, and embolic infarcts of the lower extremities with tissue loss. During this time, he had multiple imaging studies for various medical reasons, including a mesenteric ultrasound that showed no abnormalities of his native vessels. He was discharged to a rehabilitation facility after a 2-month admission on long-term antibiotics. At the time of discharge, he had negative blood cultures. One month after his hospital discharge, the patient presented to the emergency department with new onset fevers to 40.8 C, hypotension, and mental status changes. New blood cultures were positive for MRSA; however, transthoracic echocardiography was negative for endocarditis. An abdominal ultrasound revealed a celiac aneurysm measuring 4.0 Â 3.2 cm, which was confirmed by computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis ( C). The aneurysm was notable for the size and absence of a proximal normalizing neck at the celiac base. The vascular service was consulted. The patient complained of abdominal pain and he was mildly tender without peritoneal signs. He was hemodynamically stable. A 2-staged approach was proposed due to the size of the aneurysm and relative challenge of safely ligating the aneurysmalceliac trunk from the transperitoneal approach. First, an exploratory laparotomy was carried out via a midline incision, with an aorta to common hepatic artery bypass performed using deep vein in a distal end-to-end fashion . The proximal hepatic artery stump was ligated. The gastroduodenal artery was preserved. As anticipated, the size and friable nature of the aneurysm did not permit exposure of the base or any semblance of control of the infraceliac aorta. The revascularization was completed, and the patient was transferred to ICU for recovery and subsequent extubation. Five days later, the patient underwent aortic exposure via a retroperitoneal approach with 10th rib excision ( and B). After proximal and distal aorta control was obtained, the aneurysm sac was opened and oversewn. The aortic defect was amenable to primary repair; therefore, the aorta was over sewn with a 3-0 prolene. The remaining aneurysm sac was debrided and tissue sent for pathology and microbiology. Notably, no back-bleeding was seen from the splenic artery. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged 12 days later to complete a 6-week course of vancomycin. The celiac aneurysm wall culture did not identify any microorganisms.
