A 58-year-old man with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (karyotype: 48,XY,+12,+22; molecular genetics: FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) length mutation (LM) negative, nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) mutation negative, mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL) partial tandem duplication (PTD) negative) and subsequent multilinear dysplasia was admitted to the hospital to receive the second course of consolidation chemotherapy with intravenous cytarabine (high-dose cytarabine, HD-AraC). He received a dose of 3,000 mg/m 2 (5,490 mg) twice daily on days 1, 3, and 5. A routine prechemotherapy echocardiogram showed a normal global left ventricular function (LVF) with an ejection fraction (EF) of 70%, without any wall motion abnormalities or heart valve defects. As induction chemotherapy, the patient had been treated with daunorubicin and cytarabine (7 + 3). This therapy consisted of cytarabine 100 mg/m 2 (183 mg) on days 1–7 as continuous infusion and daunorubicin 60 mg/m 2 (110 mg) on days 3–5 as short infusion. The first cycle of HD-AraC was well tolerated, without any signs of cardiotoxic side effects. Before the beginning of the second course of the HD-AraC chemotherapy, a central venous catheter was implanted. The cytarabine chemotherapy was started and well tolerated. On day 12, the patient developed fever of unknown origin (FUO) with a temperature of up to 38.7 °C. Empiric antibiotic therapy with imipenem was subsequently initiated. Vancomycin was added and the central venous catheter had to be changed. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated an atypical pneumonia. Under the combined broad-spectrum antibiotic and antifungal treatment given, the patient's general condition improved significantly. On the 25th day after admission, the patient's neutrophil count recovered to > 500/μl, and the antibiotic and antifungal therapies were stopped on day 26. After hematopoietic recovery, the patient developed productive coughing and a left-sided earache with recurrent development of fever. The patient was treated with piperacillin/tazobactam and recovered clinically with normalization of the C-reactive protein level. On day 41, the central venous catheter was removed. Unexpectedly, the patient immediately developed severe dyspnea at rest (New York Heart Association (NYHA) grade IV), with concomitant cardiogenic shock, arterial hypotension, and sinus tachycardia. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU). 12-lead electrocardiography (ECG) at ICU admission showed T wave inversions in leads II, III, aVF, and V3–V6 . Transthoracic echocardiography revealed severe dyskinesia of the mid and apical portions of both ventricles, accompanied by a highly reduced LVF with an EF of 20%. Since the ECG changes and echocardiographic findings did not correlate with the coronary artery perfusion areas, it was supposed that the underlying mechaUCLAmalities involving the apical and/or midventricular myocardial segments, with the wall motion abnormalities extending beyond a single epicardial coronary artery distribution; (2) absence of obstructive epicardial coronary artery disease that could be responsible for the observed wall motion abnormality; (3) ECG abnormalities such as transient ST segment elevation and/or diffuse T wave inversion associated with a slight troponin elevation; and (4) the lack of proven pheochromocytoma and myocarditis . It might be speculated whether venous thromboembolism with consecutive fulminant pulmonary embolism might have led to the development of TC in this patient. However, assessment of the right ventricular function on immediate and follow-up echocardiography showed sufficient right ventricular function without significant dilatation of the right heart chambers. In our case, fulminant pulmonary embolism as origin of acute heart failure could be excluded with echocardiography. Myocarditis was also considered as possible origin of the acute heart failure; however, the echocardiographic and clinical findings are not typical of myocarditis. Since the echocardiographic and electrocardiographic findings in this case were typical of TC, this diagnosis is very likely correct, even though cardiac biomarkers were not acquired. This case report might highlight potential cardiotoxic side effects after central venous administration of systemic cytarabine chemotherapy for the treatment of AML. Utmost clinical awareness is required from the providing oncologists and cardiologists in order to prevent the development of an acute heart failure syndrome in these patients. Patients presenting with chest pain, shortness of breath, or hypotension should routinely receive an ECG and rapid echocardiographic assessment to detect TC as a potential differential diagnosis. Nevertheless, in contrast to AMI, the prognosis is favorable, with possible recovery of the normal LVF. Long-term medical treatment should include a-blocker, to diminish the sympathetic stimulation of the heart. In conclusion, TC can occur in patients with AML under systemic chemotherapy, which possibly represents a triggering factor for TC development. Nevertheless, the prognosis of TC is favorable and a complete recovery of the LVF is possible.
