A 90-year-old Caucasian woman with a past medical history significant for provoked upper extremity deep venous thrombosis and Clostridium difficile colitis with subsequent ileostomy was admitted to our orthopedic service for a planned left hip arthroplasty revision and correction of acetabular protrusion. Preoperatively our patient denied chest pain or shortness of breath. She was unable to achieve four metabolic equivalents secondary to hip pain. Past surgeries included left hip arthroplasty, bilateral total knee replacement, hysterectomy, appendectomy, and cholecystectomy without any cardiopulmonary complications. A preoperative examination was unremarkable with all vital signs within normal limits and no murmurs, gallops or rubs on cardiac auscultation. Her only medications were omeprazole and vitamin B12. Patient risk was stratified as average risk for an intermediate risk procedure. Intraoperatively ourpatient was given regional, spinal, and monitored anesthetic care (MAC), which were well tolerated. She initially received midazolam prior to morphine spinal anesthetic. Due to the procedure length, she was converted to general anesthesia using a laryngeal mask airway. Fentanyl, midazolam, and propofol were used to convert to general anesthesia. Shortly after the transition to general anesthesia, she converted from normal sinus rhythm to sinus tachycardia. Unexpected hypotension near the end of operation required 3200cc of crystalloid fluids, 500cc albumin, and two units of packed red blood cells. Postoperatively she was transferred to our surgical intensive care unit. On postoperative evaluation, our patient was alert, comfortable, and without any complaints. Her vital signs revealed a blood pressure of 89/46mmHg and a heart rate of 95 beats per minute on a phenylephrine drip. A physical examination was significant for a new-onset grade 4/6 systolic murmur at the apical area radiating to the axilla. She was breathing comfortably without accessory muscle use and her extremities were warm with 2+ pulses. Her postoperative hemoglobin dropped to 7mg/dL from 12mg/dL preoperatively; her electrocardiogram, renal function, and troponin results were negative. An emergent transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) revealed dynamic LVOT obstruction with peak velocity of 4.2L/m/s and moderate to severe mitral regurgitation due to SAM of the anterior MV leaflet . Her LV outflow gradient was 65 to 70mmHg (normal <30mmHg). By the end of postoperative day 1, our patient was weaned off the phenylephrine. On postoperative day 2, she no longer had a cardiac murmur on auscultation. A follow-up echocardiogram three days later revealed resolution of outflow obstruction and resolution of mitral regurgitation (
and
).
