WD * was a 45-year-old, single male with a diagnosis of chronic schizophrenia, treated within a metropolitan psychiatric inpatient unit. He was physically well and had normal metabolic functioning. WD had been stable on clozapine for 10 years, with one significant relapse in 2012 following self-cessation, characterised by catatonia that required emergency electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and then re-titration of clozapine. He presented again in February 2013 as catatonic, in the context of self-cessation of clozapine, with his mental state fluctuating between periods of agitation and mutism. Initially treated with intramuscular olanzapine then zuclopenthixol acetate, WD responded well to ECT, in total requiring 14 sessions. During the initial phase of his recovery there was concern that he had developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) – temperature 37.9°C, creatine kinase (CK) 2466 iu/l, globally increased tone – necessitating transfer to the medical ward; but NMS ultimately remained unproven. Towards the end of the patient's course of ECT, clozapine titration was commenced with a 'fast' dose escalation. WD's baseline cardiac function was deemed normal, with his left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) having been measured as 55%, 7 months previously. Baseline cardiac enzymes were also normal (Troponin I < 0.03 µg/l; CK 134 iu/l), as was a full blood examination (FBE) and electrocardiogram (ECG). C-reactive protein (CRP) was 22 mg/l. The same day clozapine was commenced, it was discovered that WD had been suffering from an ischiorectal abscess, which required antibiotics (flucloxacillin 1g QID IV/PO; 14/7) and 4 days later, incision and drainage. He had no symptoms of systemic infection and was afebrile at all times. On that 4 th day (coinciding with Day 4 of clozapine titration), his CRP was 180 mg/l and white cell count (WCC) was 16.8×10 9 l. Blood cultures that day were negative, and both CRP and WCC normalised 2 days later, post-procedure. Save an initial, non-persistent, asymptomatic tachycardia (100–130 bpm), WD achieved his clozapine target dose of 400 mg by Day 20, without further issue. During the clozapine titration, weekly FBEs were taken to monitor for agranulocytosis, and these were all unremarkable (apart from Day 4). On Day 22 a troponin and CK were taken and the troponin, but not the CK, was found to be elevated (Troponin I 0.65 µg/l (N = <0.03); CK 53 iu/l (N = 60–285)). Cardiology opinion was immediately sought and the clozapine was ceased. The following day an echocardiogram demonstrated a worsening of systolic function since July 2012, with LVEF having dropped to 45%. Nonetheless, with falling troponins (0.33 µg/l and 0.14 µg/l) and nonelevation of CRP over the next 2 days, lack of past or current symptoms and with the knowledge that WD had been stable on clozapine for 10 years, the cardiology team felt that this clinical picture was unlikely to represent myocarditis. Clozapine was therefore recommenced following a 'slower' clozapine titration protocol, with cardiac MRI booked for the following week. During this period WD had daily ECGs, CRPs and troponins, which were all normal – troponins had normalised on Day 4 of re-titration. He remained asymptomatic. Whilst clozapine was re-titrated, WD continued with olanzapine 10 mg tds cover, and 2.5 mg perindopril was introduced.By Day 7 of clozapine re-titration, WD remained well. There were no signs of heart failure, and he was nontachycardic and afebrile at all times. However, the planned cardiac MRI the following day showed a significant global reduction in LVEF of 38%, plus regional myocardial oedema and delayed gadolinium contrast enhancement suggestive of recent or acute myocarditis . Clozapine was thus permanently ceased, WD having been re-titrated up to 25 mg mane/ 75 mg nocte by this point, and 1.25 mg bisoprolol was introduced. WD's mental state sadly later deteriorated, necessitating further ECT and combination therapy of olanzapine, haloperidol, sertraline and lithium to return him to his baseline mental state. However, his cardiac function improved after clozapine cessation, with a follow-up echocardiogram 8 weeks later demonstrating an LVEF of 45–50%. A 10-month comparative cardiac MRI  ruled out ischaemic injury as a cause of the elevated troponins (minimal wall motion abnormalities), and showed further, global resolution of inflammation and LV function (LVEF 58%), which was most suggestive of previous myocarditis.
