A 79-year-old female with symptomatic (New York Heart Association classification III) severe aortic stenosis was referred to our department for evaluation. The patient's medical history included coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), right carotid endarterectomy, arterial hypertension, non–insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia. At baseline echocardiography, the left ventricular ejection fraction was ~50%, aortic valve area was 0.59 cm 2 , and mean and peak aortic valve gradients were 47 and 83 mmHg, respectively. The logistic EuroSCORE was estimated to be 29.75%. Left heart catheterization revealed a patent left internal mammary graft (to the left anterior descending artery) and a saphenous vein graft (to the right coronary artery). Multislice computed tomography (MSCT) showed an aortic annulus diameter (min × max) of 17.0 mm × 22.4 mm with an aortic annulus perimeter of 62.1 mm (derived average diameter 19.8 mm); coronary ostia height of 10.6 and 12.8 mm for the left and right coronary arteries, respectively. The left subclavian, right and left common iliac, external iliac and femoral arteries were severely calcified and had small diameters that would exclude the use of 18 Fr sheaths for transfemoral TAVI (
;
). Taking into account the small aortic annulus size and the potentially endangered coronary ostia, the CoreValve Evolut R 23 mm device was chosen for its repositionable and retractable capabilities. This choice was also dictated by the small available access route of the left femoral artery, which could be accessed with the (narrowest available) 14 Fr introduction sheath of the aforementioned device. Nonetheless, in view of the extensive and circumferential vessel calcification, surgical cut-down was decided upon. This approach provided direct left femoral artery evaluation and precise identification of a relatively safe arterial puncture site. The procedure was conducted under general anesthesia and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) was used to assess the aortic valve pre-and post-implantation. After surgical preparation of the left femoral artery, the puncture site was guided by direct palpation and tactile sensation of the arterial wall texture, in order to avoid calcification at the entry point . Subsequently, balloon aortic valvuloplasty was performed through a 14 Fr sheath . The 14 Fr sheath was then removed and the EnVeo-R™ delivery catheter system, which houses the capsule in which the bioprosthesis is loaded, was inserted, while contact between its back end and the InLine™ (14 Fr equivalent sheath) was maintained during the whole insertion process (Figures 2B-2E, 3). When the InLine sheath was fully inserted, the CoreValve Evolut-R 23 mm device was advanced and successfully deployed within the native aortic valve . There was no need for repositioning during prosthesis deployment, since fluoroscopic data indicated optimal positioning. TEE was also used to assess the good functionality of the implanted prosthesis and to exclude the existence of any major paravalvular leak . Finally, the access vessel was surgically secured and a drain tube was placedin the wound . The patient was discharged on day 5 post-TAVI, without the need for permanent pacemaker implantation.
