Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, also known as stress-induced cardiomyopathy, is an acquired form of left ventricular systolic dysfunction seen in the setting of physiologic stress and the absence of coronary artery disease. It is thought to be caused by excessive sympathetic stimulation. It is well described in the adult literature associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage where it is known as neurogenic stress cardiomyopathy (NSC), but few such pediatric cases have been reported. We describe our experience with 2 children (13-and 10-year-old girls) who presented with spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage followed by pulmonary edema and shock. Echocardiography revealed similar patterns of left ventricular wall motion abnormalities consistent with NSC, inverted Takotsubo variant. One child progressed to death, whereas the other made a remarkable recovery, including significant improvement in cardiac function over the course of 1 week. We argue that at least 1 of these cases represents true stress-induced cardiomyopathy. This report will alert pediatricians to this transient cardiomyopathy that is likely underdiagnosed in pediatric intensive care. We also highlight the challenges of managing both shock and elevated intracranial pressure in the setting of NSC.In this setting, it is known as neurogenic stress cardiomyopathy (NSC). Here we discuss 2 cases of spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage and strikingly similar variants of NSC seen within a single year at our PICU. A healthy 13-year-old girl was found unresponsive at home. She was endotracheally intubated by emergency medical services (EMS) and brought to a local emergency department (ED) where a noncontrast head computed tomography (CT) scan revealed an intracranial mass near the right basal ganglia with old calcifications and acute hemorrhage with early cerebellar tonsillar herniation. She was given mannitol and transported to our level-1 trauma center for neurosurgical care. Soon thereafter she developed pulseless ventricular tachycardia and received 5 minutes of chest compressions, 1 dose of epinephrine, and 1 dose of defibrillation before return of spontaneous circulation. During the code she developed pulmonary edema. A head CT with contrast demonstrated a large, enhancing thalamic mass with severe mass effect. An external ventricular drain(EVD) was emergentlyplaced inthe ED. She was admitted to the PICU on phenylephrine and epinephrine infusions to maintain adequate cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP). Further neurosurgical intervention was delayed until her clinical status improved.
Three hours after cardiac arrest, electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrated sinus tachycardia with subtle signs of myocardial ischemia ( . Troponin-I was elevated at 3.27 ng/mL (normal ,0.4). A transthoracic echocardiogram
(TTE) obtained 24 hours after cardiac arrest demonstrated normal left ventricular (LV) size, but akinesis of the basal and midventricular segments with mild hypokinesis of the apical segments. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was severely depressed at 23% (
The patient underwent craniotomy with subtotal resection of a grade 1 pilocytic astrocytoma. Soon after surgery, the EVD was removed. On transfer to the rehabilitation service, her only neurologic deficits were mild left-sided hemiparesis and dysphagia with thin liquids. She was discharged to home 13 days after presentation. She has had no cardiac sequelae to date.
A healthy 10-year-old girl presented with sudden headache followed by lossA 12-lead ECG done at the community ED is shown inSoon thereafter she developed fluidrefractory shock requiring a norepinephrine infusion. CT angiogram demonstrated a ruptured left-sidedCase 1 initial TTE. Apical 4-chamber view at end-diastole (A) and end-systole (B). Apical 2-chamber view at end-diastole (C) and end-systole (D). Apical long-axis view at end-diastole (E) and end-systole (F). The LV is normal in size and wall thickness. There is basal and midventricular akinesis with sparing of apical segments. LVEF 23%. This is consistent with inverted TC. The right heart is normal.
cerebellar arteriovenous fistula with hemorrhage compressing the fourth ventricle. The patient received an emergent craniectomy with EVD. On admission to the PICU, the patient became hypotensive and epinephrine was added. Serum troponin-I level was elevated at 2.55 ng/mL.
On hospital day 2, TTE demonstrated spheroid remodeling of the LV with akinesis of the basal and midventricular segments ( Case 1 follow-up TTE. Various echocardiographic (ECG) views arranged as in The LV is again normal in size and wall thickness. There is isolated mid LV segment hypokinesis with normal apical and basal contractility. LVEF 44%. This is consistent with recovering inverted TC.
support. The patient went on to develop central brain herniation. She died on hospital day 10 after parental consent to organ donation after cardiac death.
SIC typically resolves within weeks and has a favorable prognosis by itself, thus treatment is supportive. 3 In a hemodynamically stable patient this can include angiotensinconverting enzyme inhibitors, b-blockers, and diuretics. Current research is investigating the possible benefit of early b-blockade. The presence of cardiogenic shock in adults with SIC may require urgent angiography and intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation. There is no established treatment algorithm for children with SIC.
