We report herein the case of an 82-year-old patient with a respective history of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), type 2 diabetes, treated dyslipidemia and chronic ischemic heart disease (CD Angioplasty, AIV), recent disabling stroke, Parkinson's disease, angina pectoris and dyspnea on exertion (NYHA 3). The patient was diagnosed with severe aortic stenosis: annulus = 23 mm, area = 0.85 cm 2 , minimal aortic insufficiency (AI), transvalvular mean gradient (MG) = 30 mmHg, with consistent LVEF at 55% in transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) at 50 mmHg and coronary lesions for which the patient received a stent in the middle segment of the right coronary artery prior to the procedure. EUROSCORE was 26% while STS score was 2.39% risk of mortality and 14.73 % risk of morbidity or mortality. The patient was implanted with a 26 mm Edwards-Sapien XT Valve via left femoral access without complications. Echocardiographic control at post-procedure and at one month revealed an aortic valve area of 1.9 cm 2 , MG = 9 mmHg, with the patient showing clinical improvement. The patient was re-admitted 5 months after the procedure for syncope and recurrent angina; upon TTE examination: LVEF = 55%, valve area = 0.8 cm 2 , MG = 56 mmHg. The non-displaced bioprosthesis presented cusps with reduced mobility in the apical portion, with a predominant obstruction distally to the valve with visible thrombus. Of note, the patient had been under dual anti-platelet therapy (aspirin + clopidogrel) since his discharge. At this point, the diagnosis of prosthetic valvular thrombosis was evoked. Upon medico-surgical consensus, it was decided to introduce heparin therapy relayed by VKA treatment (oral anticoagulants). Upon treatment, the patient quickly improved and at one month after introduction of VKA, TTE showed LVEF = 55%, valve area = 1.8 cm 2 , Vmax = 1.73 m/s, MG = 15 mmHg, along with disappearance of the thrombosis ( A'B'C') Three and a half months after introduction of anticoagulant therapy, the patient was controlled with TTE displaying a LVEF = 55%, MG = 10 mmHg with thin cusps showing no thrombosis or obstruction. For etiological purposes, respective investigation of circulating anticoagulants, anti-B2GP1, anticardiolipids as well as a full thrombophilia work-up were performed and proved negative. A review of clopidogrel resistance by conventional methods was also performed and found to be negative. The only significant anomaly was a thrombocytopenia at 56 G/L in a context of chronic ITP. Since then, the patient is being treated with long-term aspirin and VKA anticoagulation. Evolution remains uneventful.
