A 70-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital for nocturnal dyspnea and chest pain. She had never smoked and had no history of rheumatic fever or diabetes mellitus, but she was on medication for hypertension and dyslipidemia for more than 10 years. At the age of 66 the patient had been diagnosed with Castleman's disease (hyaline-vascular type) after lymph node biopsy, and primary SS based on clinical features (dry mouth and eyes), ocular signs (a Shirmer's test; ≤ 3 mm in 5 minutes, rose Bengal score ≥ 4), and serological findings (Table). 5) Thereafter, the patient was on steroid therapy with prednisolone (20 mg/day). She also had experienced syncope at the age of 67 years, and 3 years prior to admission, she had repeatedly required hospitalization for heart failure. On admission, the patient was slightly anemic, and had a moon-faced appearance. A diffuse swelling of the parotid glands without tenderness was noted, and lymph nodes were palpable in the cervical, axillary, and inguinal regions. A systolic ejection murmur was heard in the 3rd right intercostal space. No rales were heard on either lung field. Hematological examination showed a red blood count of 326 × 10 4 , hemoglobin of 8.2 g/dL, white blood cells of 10,000/mm 3 , and platelet count of 8.9 × 10 4. Laboratory data revealed total serum protein of 6.5 g/dL, albumin of 2.8 g/dL, total cholesterol of 138 mg/dL (HDL; 35 mg/dL, LDL; 81 mg/dL), triglycerides of 160 mg/dL, BUN of 65.9 mg/dL, Cr of 1.29 mg/dL, FBS of 89 mg/dL, and HbA1C of 4.1%. Serum electrolyte concentration was within normal limits (Na; 143 mEq/L, K; 3.7 mEq/L, Ca; 8.4 mg/dL) but parathyroid hormone and phosphate concentrations were not measured. Chest X-rays revealed moderate cardiomegaly. Echocardiography demonstrated a normal-sized left ventricle with favorable contraction (ejection fraction = 67%). The aortic valve wasKONO, ET AL stiffened and calcified, and cusp motion was severely restricted. Doppler study showed a high mean pressure gradient (57 mmHg) across the aortic valve and a small aortic valve orifice area (0.45 cm 2 ). The thickness of the pericardium was normal, and no pericardial effusion was present. Insertion of a catheter into the left ventricle was not successful, and coronary arteriography revealed normal arteries. At surgery, no pericardial adhesion to the heart and aorta was present. The aortic valve was tricuspid, and the cusps were thickened, fibrotic, and mostly calcified, but no commissural fusion or verrucous vegetations were found (
. Severe calcification was also observed in the annulus. After careful excision of the aortic cusps and debridement of the annulus, aortic valve replacement was achieved with a bovine pericardial valve. The patient recovered uneventfully. Echocardiography showed improvement of the aortic valve gradient and valve orifice area, and serum BNP was decreased from 301.5 pg/mL on admission to 28.6 pg/dL 4 months after the operation. Pathological findings of the aortic valve (
demonstrated severe nodular calcification, hyaline degeneration, and partly myxomatous degeneration, but no lymphocyte infiltration was evident.
