We report the case of a 58-year-old male patient undergoing valve replacement surgery for symptomatic aortic valve stenosis. Coronary heart disease had been ruled out preoperatively by coronary angiography. Valve replacement surgery was performed using a St. Jude 25 mm mechanical valve prosthesis (St. Jude Medical Inc., St. Paul, MN, USA). During surgery, cardioplegic solution was administered by selective antegrade ostial cannulation using a 3mm coronary artery perfusion cannula with a 6mm balloon tip (CalMed Laboratories, Costa Mesa, CA, USA). Postoperative recovery and rehabilitation were unremarkable without symptoms of angina pectoris. 10 weeks after surgery, the patient was readmitted to our department with recent onset of unstable angina. Oral anticoagulation with phenprocoumon was within therapeutic range with an INR value of 2,7 (target median INR 2,5 in case of low prosthesis thrombogenicity and no patient-related risk factors). Baseline ECG on admission was recorded while the patient was free of symptoms and showed symmetrical negative T-waves in leads V2-4 . Echocardiographic evaluation showed good prosthetic valve function and a normal left ventricular ejection fraction without abnormal regional wall motions. Recurrent severe attacks of angina pectoris at rest were successfully treated with morphine and glyceryl trinitrate. Simultaneous ECG recordings showed normalization of the previously inverted T-waves . Despite serial negative measurement of cardiac markers including high sensitive troponin T, loading doses of 250 mg acetylsalicylic acid and 300 mg clopidogrel were administered upon these findings and an early invasive strategy was planned. Coronary angiography revealed subtotal ostial occlusion of the left anterior descending artery  and successful percutaneous coronary intervention was performed using a Zotarolimus-eluting stent (Resolute Integrity® 3,0 × 12 mm, Medtronic Inc., Minneapolis, MN, USA) . Antiplatelet therapy will comprise three months of dual antiplatelet therapy (acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel) followed by nine months of single antiplatelet therapy (acetylsalicylic acid alone), combined with unaltered continuation of phenprocoumon.
