An 8-year-old girl (body weight: 25 kg; body surface area : 0.97 m 2 ) was admitted to our hospital due to severe, rapid-onset heart failure. Seven months before, she had been diagnosed with a bone sarcoma of the left tibia and was treated by surgical resection and chemotherapy according to the EURAMOS-1 Trial (The European and American Osteosarcoma Study Group), including methotrexate, cisplatin and doxorubicin(cumulative doses: 450 mg/m 2 ). Ten days after the last chemotherapy course, her general condition worsened, and echocardiography showed a dilated left ventricle, a biventricular reduced contractility with an ejection fraction (EF) of 25%, and a shortening fraction of 15%. Despite maximal inotropic support and mechanical ventilation, the patient' s condition deteriorated, and an LVAD implantation with the use of an LVAD HeartWare Ventricular Assist System (HeartWare Inc, Framingham, MA) was successfully performed ( . Apart from prolonged medical support, right ventricular treatment requiring initial inhaled nitric oxide until the sixth postoperative day, and milrinone for the first 2 weeks, the patient' s further postoperative course was uneventful. Ventilation time was 7 days, and her ICU stay was 28 days. The child was discharged from the hospital 90 days after LVAD implantation on an oral medication regimen with diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and b-blocking agents and a triple anticoagulation regimen consisting of phenprocoumon, acetylsalicylic acid, and dipyridamole. The assist device was set on a rotation of 2100 rates per minutes. Before discharge, extensive training in handling the LVAD and especially how to react in an emergency situation were provided to the child, her parents, the family practitioner, the whole school class (including teaching staff), and the local emergency providers. The girl lives 1 hour by car from the hospital. Follow-up at home was uneventful; the patient' s functional status improved; and she attended public school. No significant problems or alarms from the device occurred. Outpatient visits every second week showed improvement in the cardiac function on echocardiography, and brain natriuretic protein levels dropped continuously (maximum: 52 900 ng/L; minimum: 2100 ng/L). Repeated echocardiography under reduced pump flow and finally off-pump found no significant impairment in myocardial function or dilation of the ventricles. Four months after implantation, cardiac catheterization with complete hemodynamic evaluation was scheduled.
ON, Canada) ( . In addition to a moderate increase in mean pulmonary artery and capillary wedge pressures, the other hemodynamic parameters (ie, cardiac index, pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance, central venous oxygen saturation) remained completely stable. We simultaneously performed an echocardiography, which showed good biventricular contractility with no signs of ventricular dilation. The details of the hemodynamic evaluation are given in .
