A 75-year-old woman presented to our hospital with a three-day history of dyspnea [New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III]. She had a history of a mitral valve replacement three years prior due to severe mitral stenosis with rheumatic etiology. Her current medications included cilostazol, amiodarone, digoxin, and warfarin. Of note, she ate fresh seafood several times per month. She was admitted for progressive heart failure without a fever or chills. On admission, her heart rate was 84 beats/min, blood pressure was 120/80 mmHg, and her body temperature was 36.9. The patient's body weight was 44 kg and body mass index was 18.6 kg/m 2. A physical examination revealed a previouslyundiagnosed III holosystolic murmur at the apex and her lung fields had bilateral rales in both bases. No Osler's nodes, Janeway lesions, or splinter hemorrhages were observed. Initial laboratory results showed a hemoglobin level of 8.0 mg/dL, a white blood cell count of 17,980/μL with 87.0% neutrophils, and a platelet count of 68,000/μL. Serum biochemistry indicated a blood urea nitrogen level of 33.3 mg/L and creatinine level of 1.28 mg/dL (creatinine clearance 27.5 mL/min). Because her C-reactive protein (CRP) level was 87.0 mg/L, blood cultures were collected on the first day of hospitalization. A chest radiograph showed cardiomegaly and increased interstitial markings suggestive of pulmonary edema. All blood culture bottles drawn from three different sites yielded growth of a Gram-positive coccus. L. garvieae was identified as the causative organism in the blood cultures, using a VITEK II system (bioMérieux, Hazelwood, USA), with a probability of 98.0%. Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) revealed pedunculated echogenic material 16 mm in diameter on the prosthetic mitral valve. For the first two days of hospitalization, before the blood culture Gram staining results were available, ceftriaxone (2 g/day), gentamicin (45 mg per 8 h), and rifampin (600 mg/day) were prescribed as empirical antibiotic therapy. After receiving the staining results, the patient was started on teicoplanin (400 mg/day) after an initial loading dose of 400 mg/12 h administered three times. However, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) data for teicoplanin were unavailable because teicoplanin TDM is not routinely performed in our hospital. A MicroScan MICroSTREP plus panel was used to determine antimicrobial susceptibility and measure the minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs), revealing susceptibility to penicillin (0.12 μg/mL), amoxicillin/ clavulanate (0.5/0.25 μg/mL), ceftriaxone (0.25 μg/mL), cefotaxime (0.25 μg/mL), meropenem (0.06 μg/mL), vancomycin (1 μg/mL), and levofloxacin (1 μg/mL) and resistance to clindamycin (>0.5 μg/mL). Antimicrobial susceptibility testing using Etest strips (bioMérieux, Marcy l'Etoile, France) revealed the following values: penicillin 0.75 mg/L, ceftriaxone 0.38 mg/L, and teicoplanin 0.125 mg/L. Because the Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) has not yet established Lactococcus MIC breakpoints for antibiotic susceptibilities, susceptibilities were presumed based on the F: female, GI: gastrointestinal, M: male, NAV: native aortic valve, NMV: native mitral valve, PAV: prosthetic aortic valve, PMV: prosthetic mitral valve, PPI: proton-pump inhibitor, Ref: reference, USA: United States of Americadairy products, but also in meat products, vegetables, and cereals (29). Along with this spread, L. garvieae has also been identified as a clinical pathogen in patients with infective endocarditis. Including our case, a total of 19 cases of infective endocarditis caused by L. garvieae have been reported in the literature (2-18). Eleven patients (57.9%) were men, and 15 (78.9%) were sixty years of age or older. Thirteen cases (68.4%) involved the native valve. Six patients (31.6%) underwent cardiac surgery due to infective endocarditis. Of these 19 cases, 4 (21.1%) died due to multi-organ failure, heart failure, or cerebral hemorrhage ( . None of these 4 cases underwent surgery. In most routine clinical microbiology laboratories, misidentification of Lactococcus species as Enterococcus species may occur (14). In automated identification systems, these isolates can result in a lack of identification of presumptive Enterococcus isolates. In such cases, the suspicion of Lactococcus species should be raised, particularly in blood cultures. Finally, molecular testing should be used to confirm the identity of L. garvieae (14). Although infective endocarditis caused by L. garvieae is uncommon, the incidence of these cases may be underestimated due to difficulties in correctly identifying the isolates. The previous 19 cases, including 4 patients with multivalve infective endocarditis, involved a total of 23 valves, including mitral (n=14), aortic (n=8), and tricuspid valves (n=1). Among these, native valves included 11 (78.6%) mitral and 4 (50.0%) aortic valves. Previous reports speculated that L. garvieae infections might result from ingestion of contaminated food, especially raw fish, in patients with modified gastrointestinal tracts (13, 17, 18, 21, 23). Our case was also exposed to raw fish and had underlying gastritis. Among the 19 reported cases, nine (47.4%) were associated with fish exposure, and 12 (63.2%) had gastrointestinal disorders ( . All previous cases, except a single German case, were reported from cities or countries on a peninsula or island or with contact with the sea. There is little data on antimicrobial susceptibility of Lactococcus species, and formal CLSI interpretive criteria for Lactococcus do not currently exist. According to the criteria for Streptococcus species, clindamycin resistance is a feature of L. garvieae; this feature can be used to distinguish it from other Lactococcus species (30). Of the previous 19 cases, 15 (78.9%) were administered ß-lactams and aminoglycoside antibiotic therapy. Of these 15 patients, 11 survived. The remaining 4 patients received antibiotic monotherapy, including vancomycin (n=2) or ampicillin (n=2) without mortality. Among these 4 patients, 3 (75%) underwent cardiac surgery. In our case, initial empirical antibiotic therapy for the prosthetic infective endocarditis was composed of ceftriaxone, gentamicin, and rifampin according to the clinical guideline (31). After the staining results indicated infection with Gram-positive cocci, the patient was started on teicoplanin (400 mg/day) upon consideration of the patient's decreased renal function, in expectation of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or multidrugresistant Streptococcus species. After L. garvieae was identified, teicoplanin was maintained continuously, because 5 of the previous 7 cases who received glycopeptides recovered from an illness in the literature review. However, the initial teicoplanin monotherapy resulted in treatment failure. This treatment failure might have been due to insufficient therapeutic blood levels. After cardiac surgery, the patient was started immediately on ceftriaxone (2 g/day), because no adjustment in the ceftriaxone dose is needed in renal impairment. It was also chosen based on the susceptibility test using an E-test. Six (31.6%) patients of the previous 19 cases required surgical intervention. All those who underwent the surgical intervention after antibiotic treatment made satisfactory progress. Our patient required cardiac surgery upon admission due to heart failure and mobile vegetation >10 mm. However, she did not initially wish to undergo cardiac surgery. After persistent recommendation from our team, she finally agreed. The clinical presentations of infective endocarditis might not include a fever over 38°C. Of the previous 19 cases, five (26.3%) were afebrile. This observation might be associated with old age, underlying disease, or less virulent and opportunistic pathogens. In conclusion, L. garvieae should be considered as a causative pathogen of afebrile infective endocarditis in immunocompromised patients. With improved molecular tests and continued development of aquaculture, an increasing number of clinical cases of L. garvieae infection are expected. Furthermore, clinical guidelines for the treatment of L. garvieae infection should be established based on the standard criteria for antimicrobial susceptibility.
