A 65-year old female with severe aortic valve stenosis and regurgitation and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation underwent AVR and pulmonary vein isolation. The aortic valve was tricuspid with severe calcification on the cusps and annulus. All cusps were resected and the severe annular calcification was carefully removed with the Cavitron Ultrasound Surgical Aspirator (CUSA EXcel Plus, Integra LifeSciences Corporation, NJ, USA). The 19-mm CEPME aortic bioprosthesis was implanted supra-annularly with 2-0 Ethibond EXCEL (ETHICON, Inc., Somerville, NJ, USA) pledgetted non-everting mattress sutures throughout except simple interrupted suture at the Left-Right (L-R) commissure, because the gap between two pledgets was somewhat distant at the L-R commissure. Trans-esophageal echocardiogram (TEE) prior to coming off bypass showed mild to moderate leakage at the L-R commissure . We regarded this leakage as paravalvular and decided to repair the leakage. Three Ethibond EXCEL pledgetted mattress sutures were placed on the aortic side of the sewing ring around the L-R commissure and passed outside of the aortic wall. These sutures were tied outside of the aortic wall with pledget. Repeat TEE still showed mild to moderate leakage at the L-R commissure after the second aortic declamping. The heart was arrested a third time and the prosthesis was carefully retrieved and examined. Ahole in the polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) fabric of the sewing cuff just below the L-R stent post was identified as the cause of the leakage. There was a clear gap between the silicone SR and the metal stent in this area, leading us to believe this was a cuff leak, not a paravalvular leak. We repaired this hole in the fabric with 5-0 Prolene (ETHICON, Inc.) suture with figure-of-8 fashion and performed redo AVR with the repaired prosthesis in a supra-annular position. Intraoperative TEE then showed trivial leakage, only at the R-N commissure site after third aortic declamping. The patient was discharged on the 58th postoperative day, because of postoperative complications, such as arrhythmia and renal failure. Twelve months after surgery, postoperative transthoracic echocardiogram showed persistent trivial leakage. Blood work showed no significant haemolysis.
