To the Editor: Two patients were hospitalized for recurrent heart failure after the implantation of a CoreValve self-expanding transcatheter aortic-valve prosthesis. In Patient 1, a 73-year-old woman with severe aortic stenosis who declined open surgery, a 29-mm CoreValve was implanted in August 2009. During the 5 years after valve implantation, severe aortic stenosis and progressive coronary artery disease developed, causing repeated cardiac decompensation. In Patient 2, an 80-year-old woman with severe aortic stenosis, chronic renal insufficiency, and a diminished ejection fraction, a 31-mm CoreValve was implanted in July 2013. During the first year after valve implantation, severe aortic regurgitation developed, with a decreasing ejection fraction leading to congestive heart failure. In Patient 1, reoperation included aortic-valve replacement and coronary-artery bypass grafting in May 2014. In Patient 2, aortic-valve replacement was performed in June 2014, together with ascending aortoplasty for ectasia of the ascending aorta and transaortic mitral-valve repair and tricuspid-valve repair for moderate valvular regurgitation with the use of Alfieri stitches.
Both patients had uneventful postoperative courses. The CoreValve in each patient was firmly bonded to the aortic wall, and explantation was facilitated by means of vertical transsection and rolling up the prosthesis. The intraoperative findings in the two patients revealed thrombotic material on the frame , early structural degeneration of the aortic-valve prosthesis, and interference with motion of the anterior mitral leaflet. This interference was more prominent in Patient 2, in whom moderately severe mitral regurgitation had developed since CoreValve implantation. The CoreValve prosthesis in Patient 1 showed severe calcification resulting in high-grade aortic stenosis . In Patient 2, structural leaflet degeneration with dehiscence at two commissures was found, leading to central aortic regurgitation . The reason for thrombus formation on the stents remains obscure; both patients were receiving dual antiplatelet therapy from the time of CoreValve implantation until reoperation. Whether early degeneration could be a problem of crimping (the procedure that is used to compress the prosthesis to enable transcatheter delivery), the implanDisclosure forms provided by the authors are available with the full text of this letter at NEJM.org.bioprosthesis. We offer our view of why these particular valves failed on the basis of the clinical and pathological data presented in the report and our collective expertise in the design, testing, and clinical experience of the CoreValve bioprosthesis. The authors report that the prosthesis in both patients was found to be interfering with the normal movement of the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve. This is evidence that the device was implanted too deeply within the left ventricular outflow tract. The deep implants in both patients probably resulted in incomplete frame expansion and altered leaflet mobility. Despite normal hydrodynamic function early after implantation, the long-term effects would be impaired leaflet mobility, increased leaflet stress, and accelerated wear, eventually manifested by premature calcification and thrombus formation. 3 These progressive changes in valve function probably resulted in stenosis in Patient 1 and regurgitation (leaflet tearing at the commissures) in Patient 2; both mechanisms have been well described in the surgical bioprosthetic literature. 4,5 As the authors note, there were several additional factors to consider in Patient 2, who presented with aortic regurgitation: chronic renal insufficiency, previous dilatation after implantation, and progression of native aortic ectasia resulting in dilatation of the ascending aorta. The positioning of a transcatheter aortic valve has a major influence on both short-term hydrodynamic performance and long-term durability. The design of the CoreValve prosthesis is such that different regions of the nitinol (nickel titanium) frame possess different properties. The inflow portion allows for accommodation to the commonly elliptical shape of the left ventricular outflow tract, providing needed adaptability to minimize perivalvular regurgitation. In contrast, the valve-containing section of the prosthesis sits above the annulus, possesses increased hoop strength, and is decoupled from the inflow portion. This design allows the inflow section to conform to the native geometry (affecting a better seal) while simultaneously preserving the normal geometry and function of the valve. The CoreValve bioprosthesis and the corresponding computed tomographic images at different levels show the decoupling property of the nitinol frame . Both of these reported cases show
