A 75-year-old man with no past medical history complained of increasing dyspnoea for a year which was classified as grade III in December 2013. Transthoracic echography (TTE) revealed aortic regurgitation (4/4) associated with a 45% ejection fraction without any signs of infection or vegetation. There was no fever or inflammatory syndrome. Valve replacement surgery was planned and 13 teeth were extracted prior to this surgery to avoid secondary infection. In February 2014 a biological valve was implanted. No blood culture was performed prior to this surgery as the patient did not have a raised temperature. Bacteriological analysis of the removed valve revealed M. osloensis. The bacterium grew after specific parts of the valve were inoculated into blood culture vials (BacT/ALERT®, BioMérieux, France) and on chocolate agar. Identification was performed with MALDI-TOF (VITEX MS®, Biomérieux). This system does not give a score of accuracy but identification was considered to be correct by the system. The identification was confirmed with use of 16SRNA sequencing technology. Finally, histopathology confirmed the diagnosis of endocarditis. Antibiotic susceptibility showed that the strain was susceptible to amoxicillin, cefalotin, gentamicin and kanamycin. Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for amoxicillin was 0.047 mg/l. The patient was treated with a combination of amoxicillin and gentamicin for 5 days, followed by intravenous amoxicillin for 4 weeks. During hospitalisation a B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia was discovered. Patient follow-up after antibiotic treatment did not show any relapse of infection and TTE detected a correctly functioning biological valve. A 51-year-old man consulted for an aortic abscess found accidentally during a follow-up cardiac echography. This man had a complicated medical history with two previous incidents of endocarditis that occurred on a prosthetic mitral valve (nutritionally deficient streptococcus and Staphylococcus lugdunensis), Hodgkin's lymphoma and a kidney transplant. As a result of this abscess a Ross procedure (pulmonary autograft) was performed. All blood cultures (two) performed before surgery remained sterile but they were sampled while the patient was receiving antibiotics (BACTEC 9240 ® , Becton Dickinson). Bacteriological analysis of the removed prosthetic valve revealed M. osloensis. Identification was performed by use of MALDI-TOF (Bruker), with a good score (1.916), and was confirmed using 16SRNA sequencing. MICs were not determined as the bacterium was fully susceptible to antibiotics. Follow-up was complicated with multiple infections and kidney failure. The patient was treated with cefotaxime for 6 weeks and survived.
