A 78-year-old Japanese man came to the emergency room due to a fever lasting for one week. Oral clarithromycin, prescribed by his primary physician three days earlier, had moderately improved his symptoms. He also complained of chest discomfort that had developed approximately two hours prior to his visit but had disappeared on arrival. The patient had previously received treatment with candesartan cilexetil/hydrochlorothiazide for primary hypertension and dietary consultation for type 2 diabetes mellitus. He denied any recent dental procedures or use of illicit drugs. On admission, the patient's blood pressure was 100/40 mmHg, his pulse rate was 79 beats per minute, his body temperature was 36.9, his respiratory rate was 18 breaths per minute and his arterial oxygen saturation on room air was 97%. A physical examination revealed a diastolic murmur at the left sternal border. Neither mucocutaneous signs related to infective endocarditis, such as Janeway lesions, splinter hemorrhages, Osler nodes and conjunctival petechiae, nor active intraoral lesions were detected. Blood tests demonstrated leukocytosis (11,900/μL, neutrophils: 84%) and elevation of both serum creatinine (1.40 mg/dL) and Creactive protein (13.2 mg/dL). A chest radiograph and electrocardiogram showed no remarkable findings; however, transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) detected vegetation on the aortic valve (5 mm in diameter) with mild regurgitation. The administration of meropenem (0.5 g every 8 hours) was started under an interim diagnosis of infective endocarditis of unknown etiology. No lesions suggesting the hematogenous dissemination of the organism were detected on computed tomography of the abdomen or magnetic resonance imaging of the brain. The antibiotic was subsequently switched to ceftriaxone (2 g every 24 hours) on day 5, as Gram-negative bacilli, suspected of being in the HACEK group and considered susceptible to the drug based on an MICroFAST4J assay (Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Deerfield, USA), grew in the two sets of blood cultures obtained on admission . In contrast, a blood culture drawn on day 5 was negative. On day 21, ceftriaxone was changed to ampicillin (2 g every 8 hours) due to elevation of serum transaminases concurrently with the re-emergence of fever and deterioration of the patient's kidney function. TTE performed on day 20 demonstrated progression of the aortic valve regurgitation; therefore, the patient was transferred to another hospital, where he received ampicillin until day 34 and underwent aortic valve replacement on day 53. During the operation, perforation of the noncoronary cusp and destruction of the left coronary cusp were detected. However, the interventricular septum was intact, and the resected valve was culture-negative. The patient was subsequently discharged from the referred hospital on day 81 without sequelae. The Gram-negative bacilli recovered from the blood culture obtained on admission, which tested negative for catalase and positive for oxidase, were identified to be N. elongata with BD BBL CRYSTAL N/H (Becton Dickinson Japan, Fukushima, Japan). In order to confirm the production of acid from D-glucose and reduction of nitrate, organisms incubated on sheep blood agar overnight were heavily inoculated with Bacto Cystine Tryptic Agar (Becton Dickinson, Sparks, USA) supplemented with 1% D-glucose and N Bouillon (Eiken Kagaku, Nogi, Japan), respectively, and incubated at 35 for five days. Consequently, the organism reduced nitrate but did not produce acid from D-glucose. We finally identified the organism to be N. elongata subsp. nitroreducens based on these biochemical characteristics (Table 2). A 1,355-base pair sequence of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene of the organism, determined according to a previous description (7) and truncated for comparison with that of N. elongata-type strains, demonstrated 99.9%, 99.5% and 99.9% identity to that of N. elongata subsp. nitroreducens CIP 103511 T (GenBank accession number: JN175349), N. elongata subsp. elongata ATCC 25295 T (L06171) and N. elongata subsp. glycolytica J2 (AJ239278), respectively. Numbergene correspondingly truncated to the range of the deposited sequence of J2. Consequently, the sequences of the organism recovered in the present case and the type strains of the three N. elongata subspecies were found to be very close to each other. Instead, conventional methods utilizing biochemical reactions clearly determined the subspecies of the organism. Another report described the similar superiority of phenotypic differentiation to molecular assays in determining the subspecies of a recovered N. elongata strain (11). Further studies are thus required to determine which assay is more appropriate for identifying subspecies of N. elongata. To date, drug susceptibility testing of N. elongata has not yet been standardized. However, this organism is generally considered to be susceptible to a wide range of antibiotics (20). Most patients with N. elongata endocarditis are treated with beta-lactams, often in combination with aminoglycosides, for four to six weeks (9, 21). In the present case, the administration of ampicillin and ceftriaxone, which inhibited the growth of the recovered organism at low concentrations (! 0.12 μg/mL and ! 0.125 μg/mL, respectively), was believed to be effective in controlling the patient's bacteremia. In contrast to the immediate improvement in the patient's general condition, the regurgitation of the affected valve worsened and valve replacement was required. A review of definitive or possible cases of N. elongata endocarditis showed that approximately half of the patients underwent surgical treatment (9), with a similar frequency to that noted in an entire cohort of endocarditis cases (22). In addition, N. elongata endocarditis occasionally results in serious complications, such as brain abscesses (9) and spondylodiscitis (10), although, to our knowledge, no deaths directly associated with N. elongata infection have been reported. These findings indicate that endocarditis caused by N. elongata should be managed with close follow-up. Furthermore, adequate therapies should be established with the further accumulation of cases. In conclusion, the present case illustrates that N. elongata subsp. nitroreducens causes infective endocarditis in patients without apparent cardiac or dental risks. Further studies of the precise identification of subspecies and appropriate protocols for antibacterial treatment are needed.
