An insulin-dependent diabetic woman aged 68 years presented with a New York Heart Association Class III heart failure despite maximal medical therapy due to an extensive antero-lateral myocardial infarction suffered previously. Echocardiographic left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) was 26% using the apical biplane Simpson's rule with a large akinesia involving the apical and median segments of the antero-lateral wall and a global hypokinesia of the remainder of the left ventricle. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed the akinesia of 8 out of 16 segments with a transmural late enhancement indicative of myocardial necrosis in the basal and mid-segment of the anterior wall. Angiography showed a critical stenosis of the left main stem with a proximal occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery, the distal filling by collaterals of a tiny obtuse marginal branch, unsuitable for revascularization, and a good run-off of the left anterior descending coronary (LAD) artery. The patient's logistic Euroscore was 22%. As there was a clear indication for a surgical anterior myocardial revascularization, the patient was offered to receive a patch containing human ESCderived cardiac progenitor cells in addition to the planned coronary artery bypass. After having received extensive information on the procedure, she gave her written informed consent. An internal cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) was implanted uneventfully 1 month before the expected date of surgery. The technique for processing the cells, the description of the multiple quality controls performed throughout the protocol, and the main results of the preclinical studies have been previously described in details. 14 Briefly, a cryovial of pluripotent ESC from the I6 line (generously provided by J. Itskovitz and M. Amit; Technion Institute, Haı¨faHaı¨fa, Israël) was retrieved from the Master Cell Bank (Passage 38), thawed, and expanded in a defined medium (Nutristem TM , Biological Industries, Kibbutz Beit-Haemek, Israel) on clinical-grade irradiated human foreskin fibroblasts used as feeder cells (Tissue Bank, Hô pital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France). After three passages, commitment towards a mesodermal-cardiac lineage was induced by exposure for 4 days to bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-2 [Dibodermine alpha, 10 ng/mL, marketed as InductOs w (Wyeth pharmaceuticals, New York, NY, USA)] and a fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR)-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor, SU-5402 (1 mM; Merck, Whitehouse Station, NJ, USA) in a clinicalgrade a-Minimum Essential Medium Eagle (MEM) solution (Macopharma, Tourcoing, France) enriched with 2% insulin-free B27 supplement (Invitrogen, Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA, USA). Upon completion of the specification step, an aliquot of cells was analysed by flow cytometry for the expression of stage-specific embryonic antigen (SSEA)-1, used as a marker for loss of pluripotency, and 64% of the cell population were found SSEA-1 + , indicating a positive response to the inductive protocol. Elimination of the contaminating fraction of SSEA-1-negative cells was achieved by immunomagnetic sorting using a microbead-coupled anti-SSEA-1 antibody (Miltenyi, Teterow, Germany). The final cell yield achieved a high degree of viability (96.1%, as assessed by flow cytometry using 7-aminoactinomycine D as a marker) and purity (99% SSEA-1 + cells) while polymerase chain reaction performed in duplicate showed that, compared with the starting material of pluripotent undifferentiated I6 ESC taken as the reference, the SSEA-1 + cells featured a knock-down of the pluripotency genes Nanog and Sox-2 (0.017 and 0.001%; 0.018 and 0.054%, respectively, for each set of measurements), which was mirrored by an up-regulation of the cardiac transcription factor Isl-1 (184 and 134%). Aerobic and anaerobic sterility tests were also performed and failed to show any contamination. Because pre-set release criteria had been met, we proceeded with the incorporation of the SSEA-1 + progenitor cells into a fibrin patch by first mixing 4 million cells with 1.1 mL of a solution made of fibrinogen (20 mg/mL) and clinical-grade a-MEM medium in a 20 cm 2 agarose-coated Petri dish. Four units of thrombin (diluted in 1.1 mL of the culture medium) were then added to the mixture, which induced rapid polymerization of the gel. Both fibrinogen and thrombin were components of the clinically used Evicel w kit (Ethicon Biosurgery, Omrix Biopharmaceuticals-Ethicon Biosurgery, Rhode Saint Genèse, Belgium). The cell-loaded patch was then housed in a sterile box and transferred at room temperature to the operating room. The whole procedure lasted 18 days. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was established between the right atrium and the ascending aorta. To minimize myocardial ischaemia, the heart was kept beating throughout the whole procedure (no aortic cross-clamping). The area of infarction was easily visualized on the LV lateral wall. A 20 cm 2 piece of autologous pericardium was harvested, and the posterior half of its circumference was first sutured to the epicardium along the borders of the infarct area by a running 15/100 polyester suture, thereby creating a pocket between the pericardial flap and the epicardium. Meanwhile, the cell-loaded patch had been taken from the shipment container and rinsed in saline for 3 min. It was then slipped into the pocket , and a few interrupted sutures were finally used to complete anchoring the anterior half of the pericardial flap to the peri-infarct epicardium, thereby allowing to secure the 'sandwiched' cell-laden patch over the diseased area. The LAD was then bypassed with the left internal thoracic artery. Weaning from CPB was uneventful, and the patient was extubated 2 h and 30 min after admission into the intensive care unit. The remainder of her post-operative course was uneventful. A 240-mg dose of corticosteroids (Solumedrol w ) was given twice at the onset of the operation and at the time of weaning from CPB and repeated thereafter over the first 24 post-operative hours. Cyclosporine (Neoral w ) was started the evening of the operation and the doses were adjusted to maintain serum levels between 100 and 150 ng/mL. Serum creatinine levels and glomerular filtration rate were carefully monitored. Cyclosporine therapy was interrupted after 2 months. The immunosuppressive regimen was completed by mycophenolate mofetil (Cellcept w ) at the dose of 2 g/day during 1 month and 1 g/day during one additional month. The patient and the I6 cell line were typed for HLA (Human leukocyte Antigen) A B C, DR, DQA, DQB, DPA, and DPB by reverse SSO DNA typing (Labtype w One Lambda, Canoga Park, CA, USA). Furthermore, all sera were screened for the presence of anti-HLA antibodies by Class I and Class II SAFB Luminex assays (Labscreen w Single Antigen, One Lambda), pre-operatively and then at 15 days and 10 weeks after the procedure. Beads showing a normalized MFI. 500 were considered positive. Finally, to provide an insight into the level of immunosuppression, the anti-viral T-cell response against Epstein – Barr Virus (EBV) and cytomegalovirus (CMV) was assessed at 15 days, 1, 2, and
