A 67-year-old lady with hypertension and type-2 diabetes mellitus was diagnosed with severe aortic and mitral stenosis after a syncopal event. She subsequently underwent surgical bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement at an outside community hospital, and the reason for a single valve surgery was unclear. Post-operatively, transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) showed an elevated trans-valvular gradient across the bioprosthetic aortic valve. She was then referred for surgical reintervention of the aortic bioprosthetic valve as well as mitral valve replacement. A few days after being discharged from the hospital, she developed progressive dyspnea with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class IV symptoms along with hemolytic anemia requiring multiple blood transfusions. Color flow Doppler on TTE demonstrated flow acceleration through the LVOT secondary to obstruction with increased peak gradient of 80-mmHg . There was severe concentric left ventricular hypertrophy (basal septal thickness approximately 20mm) . Positioning of the bioprosthetic mitral valve in combination with severe septal hypertrophy appeared to be the etiology of the LVOT obstruction. During her evaluation, real-time 3D Trans-esophageal echocardiography (TEE) was also performed confirming the LVOT obstruction and showing a PVL located along the anteromedial aspect of the bioprosthetic mitral valve associated with severe mitral regurgitation . Given the patient's acutely decompensated clinical state and high operative risk for " re-do " valve surgery, the decision was made to take the patient to the cardiac catheterization laboratory for attempted percutaneous management of the LVOT obstruction with alcohol septal ablation (ASA). The procedure began with placement of a temporary pacemaker through a 5 French sheath via the right internal jugular vein approach. The left coronary artery was then engaged with an EBU 3.5 guide catheter (Medtronic, Danvers, MA) followed by passage of 1.5 mm × 6.0 mm over-the-wire (OTW) angioplasty balloon into the first septal perforator artery using an Asahi Prowater wire (Abbott, Abbott Park, IL) [
, b, and c]. The balloon was then inflated and selective angiography was performed through the OTW balloon to confirm that there was no extravasation of contrast into the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and evaluated the area ofmyocardium to be ablated by both angiography and myocardial contrast echocardiography. Following confirmation that the septal perforator supplied the septal myocardium of interest, a slow injection of 2 mL of absolute alcohol was infused over a period of 10 min. A second slow injection of 2 mL of absolute alcohol was performed due to a persistently elevated LVOT gradient. Despite two injections of absolute alcohol, intra-procedural TEE showed a residual peak gradient across the LVOT of 50-mmHg . At this point, the decision was made to inject 1 mL of BioGlue (Cryo Life, Kennesa, GA)-purified bovine serum albumin and glutaraldehyde [
] which reduced the peak LVOT gradient to 25-mmHg [
. After BioGlue injection, the patient developed complete heart block and was transvenously paced for the remainder of the procedure, and ultimately required placement of a dual chamber pacemaker. There was no other complication subsequent to the procedure. After the LVOT obstruction was relieved, there was persistence of the PVL. Despite being symptomatically improved, she still had residual symptoms and persistent hemolytic anemia with hemoglobin in the 8 g/dl range. Thus, two weeks after the septal ablation, patient was brought back to the catheterization laboratory for repair of the PVL. Access was obtained in the right common femoral vein. An 8.5-French SRO guiding sheath (St Jude Medical, Saint Paul, MN) was advanced over the wire to the right atrium and puncture of the interatrial septum was performed under TEE guidance using a Baylis trans-septal needle (Baylis Medical, Burlington, MA). The needle was removed and a 0.032 " Cook wire (Cook, Bloomington, IN) was advanced to the left atrium. The SRO sheath was then exchanged for an 8.5-French Agilis catheter (St Jude Medical, Saint Paul, MN) followed by a 6-French JR4 catheter advanced into the left atrium through the Agilis Sheath. A 0.035 " Terumo floppy Glidewire (Terumo Interventional Systems, Somerset, NJ) was guided across the PVL into the left ventricle. The Agilis catheter was removed and the JR4 catheter advanced to the left ventricle (LV). An 8 mm Amplatzer Vascular Plug II (AVP II) (St Jude Medical, Saint Paul, MN) was positioned across the PVL under real-time 3D-TEE guidance and was successfully deployed [
. Color flow Doppler on TEE confirmed reduction in mitralregurgitation from severe to mild . Post procedure, patient continued to do well with no recurrent heart failure symptoms, and there was resolution of hemolytic anemia.
