Case 1 A previously healthy 9-month-old girl was seen in another hospital after several days of polyuria, polydipsia, and 10% weight loss. She was dehydrated, afebrile, lethargic, and presented Kussmaul breathing; her family history was not contributory. Laboratory data showed metabolic acidosis (pH 7.27, pCO 2 15 mm Hg, base excess –17.6 mmol/l, HCO 3 – 6.9 mEq/l, and anion gap 31 mmol/l), hyperglycemia (58.11 mmol/l), and ketonemia (4.7 mmol/l); other data were: Na 148 mmol/l, K 5 mmol/l, P 5 mg/dl, Ca 10.2 mg/dl, urea 56 mg/dl, and creatinine 0.6 mg/dl; coagulation and lipid values were normal. The diagnosis of DKA was made and the infant started a rehydration therapy with an excessive fluid infusion of 20 ml/kg/h 0.9% saline solution and an intravenous bolus of 0.5 IU/kg of rapid insulin; after 1 h, the fluids were decreased to 13 ml/kg/h of 0.9% saline solution. Four hours later, the infant was transferred to our hospital because she had worsened. On admission, she appeared stuporous, but reactive and responsive to pain stimuli, and her Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score was 9. Laboratory data were as follows: pH 7.20, pCO 2 26.1 mm Hg, base excess –18 mmol/l, HCO 3 – 11.8 mEq/l, anion gap 32.4 mmol/l, glycemia 27.22 mmol/l, Na 146.6 mmol/l, K 5.2 mmol/l, and urea 50 mg/dl. The remaining values were normal. Fluid infusion therapy was modified considering the fluid overload already infused, at a rate not exceeding 1.5 times the usual daily maintenance requirement based on age and body surface area, by means of 0.9% saline with potassium chloride and phosphate and with rapid insulin at a dose of 0.04 IU/kg/h. She was successively monitored, and after 4 h her GCS score was 15. After another 2 h, when her plasma glucose level fell to 17 mmol/l (glycemia decreased to <2 mmol/l/h), fluid infusion was changed to 0.45% saline and 5% glucose, according to the ISPAD guidelines . Suddenly, the infant presented seizures with dilated pupils and fixed eyes diverted to the left, and she was unreactive and unresponsive to pain stimuli; her GCS score was 5. The laboratory data were as follows: pH 7.37, pCO 2 32 mm Hg, base excess –10 mmol/l, HCO 3 – 22 mEq/l, anion gap 15 mmol/l, glycemia 17 mmol/l, Na 142 mmol/l, and K 4.2 mmol/l. The remaining values were normal. First, an emergency brain computed tomography (CT) was rapidly performed showing a volume reduction of the subarachnoid spaces and the supratentorial ventricular system without tissue abnormalities; therefore, an emergency MRI was performed, during which the infant presented respiratory arrest. She was appropriately resuscitated by endotracheal intubation and transferred to the intensive care unit. MRI showed a diffuse but subtle white matter FLAIR-weighted hyperintensity , also confirmed by a volume reduction of the ventricular system and of the subarachnoid spaces, which was negative using diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) because of the vasogenic nature of the edema. Twelve hours later, the patient was extubated and was normally reactive with a GCS score of 14. The infusion therapy was performed for another 48 h; then, she started oral feeding and subcutaneous insulin therapy. Four months later, another MRI was totally negative, without any residual gliosis. Today, the patient is a 4-year-old girl with normal psychomotor development and without clinical neurologic sequelae.
A previously healthy 9-year-old boy presented to our hospital with vomitting, stupor, polyuria, polydipsia, dehydration, and 10% weight loss; his family history was not contributory. The laboratory data showed metabolic acidosis (pH 7.07, pCO 2 16 mm Hg, base excess –18 mmol/l, HCO 3 – 5.4 mEq/l, and anion gap 32 mmol/l), hyperglycemia (30.44 mmol/l), and ketonemia (4.1 mmol/l). Other data were: Na 136 mmol/l, K 4.5 mmol/l, P 5.5 mg/ dl, Ca 12.5 mg/dl, urea 55 mg/dl, and creatinine 1.4 mg/dl; coagulation and lipid values were normal. His GSC score was 12. He started fluid infusion therapy with 10 ml/kg/h of 0.9% saline solution for the first 2 h, then 0.9% saline with potassium chloride and phosphate. A daily maintenance treatment based on age and body surface area with rapid insulin at a dose of 0.05 IU/kg/h was started, and the insulin dose was adjusted in order to obtain a gradual decrease in glycemia of not more than 2 mmol/l/h. Later, when the plasma glucose level fell to 16 mmol/l, the fluid infusion was changed to 0.45% saline and 5% glucose, according to the ISPAD guidelines ; after 4 and 6 h, his GCS score was 14 and 15, respectively. Two days later, DKA resolved and the child appeared in a good clinical condition (GCS score 15). He started oral feeding, subcutaneous insulin therapy and educational training of diabetes management. On the 3rd day, the child developed headache, resolved by paracetamol. Two days later, he suddenly premEq/l, anion gap 16 mmol/l, glycemia 9.5 mmol/l, Na 144 mmol/l, and K 4.8 mmol/l. The remaining values, i.e. coagulation and lipid profiles, were normal. An emergency brain CT showed bleeding in the left temporal lobe with subtle thrombotic hyperdensity of the ipsilateral transverse and sigmoid sinuses, suggesting a venous hemorrhagic infarction. Venous thrombosis was confirmed by CT angiography, which well depicted the venous filling defects. He was transferred to the intensive care unit, where antithrombotic therapy was started. Brain MR angiography (MRA) was performed 24 h thereafter with time of flight (TOF) and phase contrast sequences; MRA confirmed the red infarction with thrombosis and excluded further microhemorrhages or arterial involvement ( a, b). Biochemical and molecular screening for prothrombotic disorders was negative. Five days later, the patient was extubated and was normally reactive, with a GCS score of 15. MRI, performed during follow-up, showed a malacic evolution of the left temporal stroke associated with the development of a subtle T2 hyperintensity and atrophy of the ipsilateral hippocampus, suggesting a residual sclerosis. One year later, MRA showed an almost complete normalization of the venous signal; few subtle signal irregularities of the left transverse and sigmoid sinuses remained. Today, the patient is a 14-year-old boy without neurologic sequelae, attending high school and doing well.
A previously healthy 22-month-old boy was admitted to our hospital presenting polyuria, polydipsia, dehydration, 12% weight loss, and lethargia; his family history was not contributory. The laboratory data showed metabolic acidosis (blood gas: pH 7.17, pCO 2 18 mm Hg, base excess –19.7 mmol/l, HCO 3 – 9 mmol/l, and anion gap 37 mmol/l), hyperglycemia (53.94 mmol/l), and ketonemia (4.5 mmol/l). Other data were as follows: Na 137 mmol/l, K 4.8 mmol/l, P 6.1 mg/dl, Ca 10.8 mg/dl, urea 65 mg/dl, and creatinine 1.1 mg/dl, and coagulation and lipid values were normal. His GSC score was 10. He started fluid infusion therapy with 10 ml/kg/h of 0.9% saline solution for the first 2 h, then 0.9% saline with potassium chloride and phosphate with daily maintenance requirement based on age and body surface area and with rapid insulin started at a dose of 0.04 IU/kg/h and adjusted in order to obtain a gradual decrease in glycemia of not more than 2 mmol/ l/h. After 4 and 6 h, his GCS score was 12 and 15, respectively. After 20 h, he suddenly presented seizures and loss of consciousness; his GCS score was 5. The laboratory data were as follows: glycemia 14.72 mmol/l, pH 7.28, base excess –19.5 mmol/l, HCO 3 – 11.5 mmol/l, Na + 135 mmol/l, and K 3.9 mmol/l. The remaining values were normal. An emergency brain MRI was performed and showed multiple bilateral hyperintensities on FLAIR, T2-weighted imaging and DWI, which appeared hypointense on ADC maps, thus suggesting an intracellular edema or a myelin sheath edema. No enhancement was found after gadolinium injection. The TOF and phase contrast MRA sequences excluded arterial or venous abnormalities. Most lesions were symmetrically located: at the bulb-medullary junction, at cerebral peduncles ( a), at the cortex of mesial frontal and temporal lobes ( b), as well as at parasagittal frontal convexities. Furthermore, asymmetrical lesions were observed in the bulb, the cerebellum, the occipital, parietal and cingulate cortex, and in the genu and the splenium of the corpus callosum. Because of the quite symmetrical and multifocal edema pattern, extrapontine myelinolysis (EPM) without pontine involvement was suspected; nevertheless, it was not possible to exclude a hypoxic-ischemic process because most lesions were distributed in the perforating arteriole and distal territories ( a, b). The patient was intubated and transferred to the intensive care unit. Ten days later, the patient was extubated and was normally reactive, with a GCS score of 14. Another three brain MRIs were performed after 12 days, 1 month and 2 months, respectively. The last one showed a mild volume reduction of the lesions but gliotic and porencephalic residuals, especially in the mesial frontal and temporal lobes. A mild dilatation of subarachnoid cerebral spaces and of the ventricular system was also evident. Today, the patient is a 5-year-old boy showing normal neurologic and psychomotor function but presenting persistent bruxism.
. a Axial spin-echo T2-weighted image: inhomogeneous cortico-subcortical hypo-hyperintense hemorrhagic venous stroke with peripheral edema at the left temporal lobe. b Phase contrast MIP coronal reconstruction: complete loss of the signal of the left transverse and sigmoid sinuses with a smaller signal gap at the proximal part of the right transverse sinus.
