A 33-year-old male with known systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and Kikuchi disease presented with a four-day history of nausea, abdominal pain and bilious vomiting. He had just returned from vacation, where he had had significant sun exposure with some resultant photosensitivity and a new rash on his face. He also complained of a week-long history of arthralgias, predominantly in his hand joints, pharyngitis and conjunctivitis. He attempted to control his symptoms at home but presented to the hospital due to severe unrelenting abdominal pain with vomiting following ingestion of even water. His initial physical examination was significant for an erythematous malar rash, diffusely tender abdomen without peritoneal signs and hypoactive bowel sounds. His vitals were otherwise stable. Initial labs were significant for a leukocytosis of 13 200 cells/uL with neutrophilia, an ESR of 58 mm/h, CRP 1.92 mg/dL, and normal lactate, amylase, lipase and renal function panel. Lupus antibody serologies (anti-double stranded DNA 17.0 IU/mL, anti-smith >8.0 AI, anti-SSA 0.3 AI, anti-SSB <0.2 AI) and complement levels (C3 29 mg/dL, C4 4 mg/dL) were consistent with active disease. Due to his severe pain and significantly dilated loops of bowel on abdominal x-ray, he underwent abdominal computerized tomography (CT) with contrast. This was highly suspicious for lupus mesenteric vasculitis with significant bowel wall thickening, edema and possible early pneumatosis of bowel wall with new onset ascites . He had dilated loops of jejunum and proximal ileum with no clear transition point, and evidence of collapsed distal ileum and colon. There was no evidence of thrombus in the superior mesenteric artery or vein. He had a history of appendectomy and it was decided to perform an exploratory laparotomy to exclude mechanical intestinal obstruction from adhesions and evaluate the viability of the bowel, given the concern for mesenteric vasculitis and gut ischemia.At surgery he was found to have inflamed, dilated and erythematous bowel and mesentery with no frank necrosis. There was no transition point in his bowel and no evidence of obstruction or adhesions. Biopsies were not taken due to the friable appearance of his gut. About 1 L of ascitic fluid was drained during surgery. Postoperatively, he continued to complain of nausea and abdominal pain. His telemetry was noted to have ST segment changes and an electrocardiogram (ECG) was obtained which showed 2–3 mm convex ST segment elevations and small Q waves in the inferolateral leads with no PR segment depression. He underwent emergent cardiac catheterization which showed an occluded distal right coronary artery (RCA) with thrombus in the posterolateral branch of the right coronary artery . This was treated with thrombectomy, balloon angioplasty and distal nitroprusside infusion. The remainder of his coronary arteries appeared normal with no angiographic evidence of underlying coronary artery disease. His initial troponin was 10.4 ng/ ml and it peaked at 68.9 ng/ml before down trending.
