Our institutional review board approved this study, and we obtained informed consent from the subject.Abbreviations: b, basilar artery; p, posterior cerebral artery; c, posterior communicating artery; s, superior cerebellar artery; a, anterior inferior cerebellar artery 2; slew rate, 100 mT/m/ms; and imaging time, 8 min 31 s. Three-dimensional TOF MRA 25 months after the initial examination revealed a newly developed sidewall aneurysm with neck size of 3.3 mm and height of 1.7 mm at the ventral aspect of the distal portion of the basilar artery ( , D) and the slightly increased size of the remaining 2 aneurysms. We performed CFD using the initial MRA dataset as the preaneurysmal artery geometry and the 25month MRA dataset as the postaneurysmal artery geometry. We used the 25-month 3D cine PC MR dataset as the boundary condition. At first, we performed MR fluid dynamics (MRFD) 9 using 3D cine PC MR images with flow visualization and analysis software (Flova; Renaissance of Technology (R'Tech) Corporation, Hamamatsu, Japan) to measure volume flow rates (VFRs) at one inlet and 6 outlets ( , B). The inlet VFR did not match the total VFR of the 6 outlets, so we adjusted the temporal VFR for each outlet according to the temporal VFR ratio. We used the inlet and adjusted outlet VFRs as the boundary conditions for CFD. Table shows the overview flow information about the areas, velocities and VFRs obtained by MRFD, and adjusted VFRs for the inlet and outlets. We used the Flova software to create geometries in stereo lithography (STL) format ( , C) based on the initial MRA dataset before aneurysm formation and the MRA dataset obtained 25 months after the initial examination and employed the software to add a 50-mm straight inlet tube at the proximal portion of the basilar artery to obtain fully developed flow at the inlet. We used CFD software (ICEM version 14.5; ANSYS Inc., Canonsburg, PA, USA) to create tetrahedral meshes and wall prism meshes in the geometries. The minimum length of the meshes was 0.076 mm, the maximum length, 0.419 mm, and the average length, 0.220 mm, and the total number of meshes was around 761,000. CFD was performed for the models with the use of a finite-element solver (CFX software, version 14.5; ANSYS Inc.) under the governing equations of mass conservation and Navier-Stokes with the condition of incompressibility. We assumed the circulating fluid as Newtonian and incompressible, with a specific density of 1054 kg/m 3 and viscosity of 0.0384 kg m/s. A rigid wall with no-slip conditions was applied. We used the pulsatile VFR of the inlet and outlets obtained by MRFD mentioned above as the inlet and outlet patient-specific boundary conditions. 10 We calculated CFD using 20 steps per one cardiac cycle with convergent calculation. Calculation of CFD was about 3 hours using a 3.1-GHz CPU. We obtained WSS magnitude, 11 SWSSG magnitude, 4 oscillatory shear index (OSI), 12 and GON 7 based on their definitions shown in the appendix. We compared streamlines around the location of the future aneurysm before and after its formationshows sections and their flow vectors of the basilar artery (Inlet 1) as an inlet vessel and the right anterior inferior cerebellar artery (Outlet 1), left superior cerebellar artery (Outlet 2), left posterior cerebral artery (Outlet 3), right posterior cerebral artery (Outlet 4), and right superior cerebellar arteries (Outlet 5, Outlet 6) as outlet vessels. A temporal VFR chart (B) demonstrates temporal changes in VFR during one cardiac cycle of one inlet and 6 outlets obtained by MRFD and adjusted according to the temporal ratio of VFR. The green line indicates the VFR of Inlet 1; its flow volume is shown in a positive direction. The other lines indicate the VFRs for the 6 outlets, and their VFRs are shown in a negative direction. and investigated whether there was an " area with high WSS and SWSSG " or an " area with high GON. " We also evaluated OSI. We evaluated WSS and SWSSG during systole at 0.3 s from the R wave. CFD based on initial preaneurysmal artery geometry demonstrated no distinct streamlines at the location of the formation of the future aneurysm  but did show an area with high GON at the location of its ostium  and an area with high WSS and SWSSG at the distal edge of its ostium ( , D) before aneurysm formation. CFD using MRA 25 months after the initial MRA examination revealed that the aneurysm had vortex flow , an area with high GON on its surface , and an area with high WSS and SWSSG at its distal edge . There was no relation with the OSI before and after aneurysm formation .
