Caudal regression syndrome, also referred to as sacral agenesis syndrome or caudal dysplasia, encompasses a constellation of vertebral anomalies and varying grades of genitourinary and anorectal manifestations, with or without cutaneous stigmata . They are included in the occult spinal dysraphism spectrum of malformations. Sacral agenesis syndrome is related to the process of secondary neurulation that involves mass cell proliferation, canalization, and retrogressive differentiation during days 28 to 48 of gestation. The hallmark of caudal dysplasia is partial or total agenesis of the sacrum . The pathogenesis of the syndrome is unclear. There are rare familial forms, but most cases are sporadic. Karyotyping has been consistently found to be normal. Interestingly, Manx cats may exhibit lumbosacral lesions that closely resemble the spectrum of caudal dysgenesis, thus constituting a naturally existing model of this malformation that has been attributed to the almost exclusive breeding of these animals in the Isle of Man . Sporadic sacral agenesis is associated with maternal diabetes in as much as 40 % of children with sacral agenesis, although only 1 % of diabetic mothers have sons with sacral agenesis. Apparently, there exists a fetal genetic constitution that contributes to the association of caudal dysgenesis with diabetes. Also, several extrinsic factors have been reported in sacral agenesis as maternal hyperthermia, insulin use, and several products (lithium, retinoic acid, antiepileptic drugs, etc.). Clinical presentation usually consists of neurological, sphinteric, and orthopedic manifestations . For this reason, patients are usually referred by urologists or orthopedic surgeons. However, some patients are asymptomatic or exhibit non-progressive deficits. In cases of dural sac stenosis, the patients often complain of back and radicular pain and manifest intermittent neurogenic claudication . Plain spine radiographs and spinal computerized tomography (CT) show the bone malformations especially those of the sacrum. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging depicts the level and shape of the conus and demonstrates the associated dural and spinal cord anomalies. Partial sacral agenesis correlates well with a stretched conus ending below L1. The spinal cord may be tethered by thick filums, myelocystoceles, and lipomas. Constriction from osseous and dural stenosis may cause ischemic damage by direct compression of the conus and cauda equina, a unique entity only found in sacral agenesis . Cord compression caused by stenosis is comparable to that seen in posterior fossa crowding, and we named it as Bspinal cord crowding.^ In addition, cystourethrogram and neurophysiological testing complement the patients' assessment.
Altogether, lesions requiring surgical treatment are those that produce spinal cord tethering or spinal cord/cauda equina compression .
A 6-year-old boy was admitted to the hospital for surgical treatment of caudal regression syndrome. The child referred bilateral leg pain and neurogenic intermittent claudication having inclusive to abandon exercise or plays to recover. The mother was diabetic and was given insulin during the child's gestation. He had started walking at age 17 months but had never controlled micturition and was always constipated. On physical examination, the boy's buttocks appeared rather flattened. There was neither motor nor sensorial involvement, but the ankle reflexes were clearly hyperactive. Plain spine radiographs  showed partial sacral agenesis (type III of Pang's classification). Spinal MR  showed the conus ending at the Th12–L1 level with its dorsal half extending farther inferiorly than the ventral one. The conus was continuous with two columns of neural tissue that surrounded an apparent cavity of fluid. The osseous canal was clearly stenotic from L3 downwards. Evoked somatosensory potentials were normal, and EMG showed chronic denervation of the external sphincter and of muscles corresponding to segments S2–S5 without acute denervation signs. Urology studies demonstrated a neurogenic bladder and involvement of the anal sphincter. Abdominal ultrasonography revealed a partially filled bladder and normal kidneys. The boy underwent bilateral laminectomy of the sacral posterior arches under neurophysiological monitoring. The paraspinal muscles were rather atrophic. The rudimentary sacral laminae were abnormally high and thickened, being the S1 arch bifid. On opening of the dura mater, the enlarged roots were tightly bounded together in two neural tissue pillars mimicking diplomyelia but there was no separating septum. An identifiable filum was not found. Some existing caudal arachnoid adhesions were freed. The dura mater was sutured in a watertight fashion. On awakening, the child was noted to have a mild weakness of the right foot and an absent right ankle reflex that corresponded well with a minimal decrease in the S1 root amplitude noted during the operation. After a 6-month period of improvement in regard to pain, the child showed clinical worsening. There were no striking changes in the boy's neurological examination or in neurophysiological and urodynamic tests in comparison with previous studies. Eleven months after the initial surgery, the child underwent reoperation that involved upward enlargement of the skin incision and laminectomy of the last normal vertebra for bone decompression. The intradural exploration showed findings similar to those of the first operation, and repeated attempts for identifying the filum with electric stimulation were unsuccessful. The surgery was performed again under neurophysiological monitoring. During the first 3 days after surgery, the child complained of headaches that were relieved by lying down. On examination, neither subcutaneous collections nor CSF leaks were noted. Three days later, the child experienced a syncope falling on to the floor that was accompanied by drowsiness headaches and vomiting. An emergent head CT was performed ( , b) that disclosed a left convexity subdural hematoma <10 mm thick compressing slightly the lateral ventricle. As the child was fully conscious and had no focal signs and the subdural hematoma was of small size, conservative treatment with bed rest, intravenous hydration, and dexamethasone was instituted after which he totally recovered. A control cranial MR showed disappearance of the subdural clot ( , d).
