Case 2 A 62-year-old male awoke with sudden onset of persisting anterograde amnesia and was admitted to our hospital. There were no other neurological defects on clinical examination. His memory did not improve and his cognition was impaired with a Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) score of 15/ 30. Initial CCT showed no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage or mass effect. Remote lacunar infarctions involving the basal ganglia on both sides were noted. MRI revealed an acute stroke affecting the bilateral anterior columns of the fornix and the genu of the corpus callosum with swelling on T2 and diffusion restriction . Follow-up MRI of the brain revealed persistent diffusion restriction in the swollen fornices bilaterally with slight extension to the septum pellucidum and in the left side of the genu corpus callosum associated with T2 and FLAIR hyperintensity . In addition to the previous MRI scan, there was subtle contrast enhancement of the fornices due to brain-blood barrier breakdown. The diagnosis of an infarction in the fornices bilaterally and left side genu ofA 59-year-old female presented to our hospital with multiple intracranial meningiomas and unruptured intracranial arterial aneurysms. A right-sided olfactory groove/planum sphenoidale meningioma enlarged impressively on follow-up MRI scan compared to 6 months ago. Progressive edema in the frontal lobe and the lesion enlarging over time prompted neurosurgical removal. At the same session, a 6-mm unruptured AcoA aneurysm was clipped via the same surgical interhemispheric trajectory . Baseline postoperative MRI demonstrated a small acute infarct within the left anterior column of the fornix with diffusion restriction ( , c). On clinical examination, she presented with a temporary anterograde amnesia. No other clinical or neurological deficits were noted.
A 71-year-old man presented with an 8-mm unruptured AcoA aneurysm with a large 5-mm neck. He underwent uncomplicated elective coil embolization under full heparinization. The AcoA could be preserved , and given the large size of the aneurysm, intravenous heparinization was continued for 24 h. When the patient woke up from anesthesia, he presented with a typical Korsakoff's syndrome with acute amnesia and a confabulatory state. Immediate MRI revealed an infarction of the bilateral columns of the fornix and the genu of the corpus callosum . The AcoA remained patent. We hypothesized that the ScA arose in very close proximity to the sac, less likely from the sac proper, or that the sac had compressed the ScA. A dissection of the ScA origin due to complicated catheterization could not be ruled out but was deemed unlikely given that the aneurysm could be catheterized easily and no balloon remodeling was required. On clinical follow-up, 6 months later, attention and concentration difficulties as well as behavioral troubles remained.
