Patient 1 A 3-year-old female was carried into our emergency department by her mother after sustaining a random gunshot to the angle of the left mandible (junction of Zones II and III) while playing outside of a friend's house. Primary survey revealed an apneic, pulseless child. The patient was immediately intubated and resuscitation was initiated. Peripheral and central venous access was obtained while chest compressions were being administered. Pulseless electrical activity at a rate of 50 was noted on electrocardiogram monitoring. Initial laboratory results included hemoglobin of 5.2 g/dL, hematocrit of 16.5 %, lactate of 7.2 mmol/L, and base deficit of 21.3 mmol/L. Following aggressive resuscitative efforts, the patient had a return of spontaneous circulation 25 min after arrival. This resulted in profuse pulsatile hemorrhage from the left neck wound, which could be controlled with much focused digital pressure applied directly at the entrance site. There was no visible exit wound or any other external signs of trauma. A chest X-ray revealed that the missile was lodged over the right shoulder; there was no radiographic evidence of an intrathoracic injury. The rate of bleeding from the entrance wound remained pulsatile and did not diminish when pressure was released transiently over a 30-min period. Although it was clear that the patient would require intervention to control the arterial hemorrhage, we had significant concern that an open R. Prasad Á L. M. Sieren Á M. Z. Department of Pediatric General, Thoracic, and Minimally Invasive Surgery, Drexel University College of Medicine, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, 160 East Erie Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19134, USA e-mail: mzschwartz@msn.com exploration could be life threatening for the following reasons: (1) adequate vascular control would be difficult if the injury proved to be in Zone III at or very near the base of the skull; (2) the rate of bleeding from the entrance site was so profuse in this small child that the blood loss over a few minutes while trying to obtain vascular control might result in a second cardiac arrest; and (3) the short neck and very compact anatomy in a 3-year-old child could make isolation of the injury without damage to other vital structures difficult. Therefore, we made the decision to take the patient to the angiography suite for definitive localization of the injury and possible endovascular intervention. What made this option viable was the ability to maintain complete hemostasis with focused pressure at the bullet entrance site. Utilizing a left common femoral arterial approach, the interventional neuroradiologist identified what proved to be a Zone II injury 5 mm proximal to the carotid bifurcation . Through a 6-French sheath, a 6 mm 9 16 mm Atrium (Hudson, NH, USA) covered stent was deployed across the injured arterial segment with immediate complete cessation of hemorrhage and excellent flow in the vessel distally on completion angiography . During the entire procedure, single digit pressure was maintained at the bullet entrance site until the stent was deployed, thus avoiding further blood loss. The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit where she remained hemodynamically stable for the duration of her admission. She was completely responsive and was extubated 21 h after presentation. The patient has been maintained on aspirin 81 mg every other day for antiplatelet therapy. A computed tomography scan obtained postoperatively revealed a fracture of the fifth cervical vertebral body, which was felt to be stable and was treated with collar immobilization. The carotid artery stent was readily seen on plain X-ray obtained for follow-up of the cervical fracture. The bullet was palpable in the subcutaneous tissue above her right shoulder; and when some swelling occurred around it, the bullet was removed. The patient had a complete recovery and was discharged home on post-procedure day 8, remarkably with no neurological deficits whatsoever. She has been followed for the pastdespite aggressive fluid resuscitation he remained hypotensive. Given his continued hemodynamic instability and exsanguinating hemorrhage when the oral pressure was released even momentarily, the patient was emergently taken to the operating room for exploration of the neck injury. While maintaining cervical spine stabilization, a left neck exploration was performed. A hematoma was noted within the carotid sheath. Nevertheless, proximal control of the common carotid artery was obtained relatively easily utilizing a double vessel loop. Further dissection revealed that the injury was superior to the angle of the mandible (Zone III). The combination of the proximal vascular control and oral packing provided adequate tamponade of the hemorrhage. However, removal of either of these resulted in recurrence of profuse pulsatile arterial hemorrhage through the oral cavity, most likely from the internal carotid artery. As the hemorrhage was controlled and hemodynamic stability had been achieved while in the operating room, two options were considered including mandible disarticulation to expose the suspected Zone III injury versus an endovascular approach. Since an interventional cardiologist was immediately available, we opted to proceed to the angiography suite for endovascular intervention. The right femoral artery was cannulated percutaneously allowing for placement of a 5 French sheath. Infusion of contrast revealed that the left external carotid artery was intact. Evaluation of the internal carotid artery revealed contrast extravasation from the vessel in Zone III at the level of the C2 and C3 intervertebral disc . A 7 mm 9 22 mm Atrium (Hudson, New Hampshire, USA) covered stent was deployed across the injury resulting in immediate cessation of contrast extravasation as well as cessation of hemorrhage from the mouth . Subsequent images demonstrated good blood flow in the head and neck vessels with the exception of the distal left internal carotid artery which appeared to have thrombosed. The patient was brought to the intensive care unit where he remained hemodynamically stable on a heparin infusion with a goal prothrombin time of 60–80 s to prevent clotting of the stent and with the hope of recanalization of the distal internal carotid artery. The patient had an uneventful postoperative course and was eventually discharged home on aspirin 81 mg per day without any neurologic deficit whatsoever.
