Acute SDH A 76-year-old man presented to our hospital with headache and vomiting after a fall. On admission, his level of consciousness was E4V4M6 on the GCS. Initial head CT revealed a left acute SDH without contusion or other intracranial hematoma. The acute SDH was approximately 1 cm thick. No abnormalities were found on laboratory analysis. The patient's medical history was unremarkable. He was initially treated conservatively because his clinical symptoms were not severe. After 12 hours of observation, no enlargement of the hematoma was seen on CT , but aphasia and right hemiparesis appeared. Therefore, endoscopic evacuation of the hematoma was performed. The hematoma was removed easily using the suction cannula ( upper), and there was no injured blood vessel on the brain surface . The postoperative CT demonstrated complete hematoma removal . After surgery, the patient became alert, and the aphasia and right hemiparesis were improved. At discharge on postoperative Day 20, his mRS score was 0. Recurrence was not observed at 3 months after surgery, and the patient returned to normal activities of daily living .
Subacute SDH A 77-year-old man was referred to our hospital by a doctor at a local hospital for treatment of subacute SDH. On admission he was alert, and the subacute SDH was approximately 1 cm thick on the initial CT . No abnormalities were found on laboratory analyses, and his medical history was unremarkable. Conservative treatment was continued because his only symptom was mild headache. The patient was discharged from our hospital 13 days after admission with no clinical symptoms. However, on the next day the patient was readmitted because of sudden-onset aphasia. A CT scan showed the left subacute SDH , and evacuation of the lesion by endoscope was performed. The postoperative CT scan demonstratedsubtotal hematoma removal . After surgery, the patient's aphasia was improved. At the time of discharge on postoperative Day 10, his mRS score was 0. Recurrence was not observed at 3 months after surgery, and the patient returned to normal activities of daily living .
