A 41-year-old Japanese woman presenting with a suddenonset severe headache, left hemiparesis and dysarthria was referred to our hospital. She had no history of traumatic injury or medical history of diabetes, glucose intolerance, arterial hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, smoking, obesity or other risk factors. In addition, there was no personal or family history of neurological disorders. Her condition worsened within a few minutes, associated with the appearance of left hemiparesis and a rapid degradation of consciousness, with a National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) Department of Neurology and Rehabilitation, Komaki City Hospital, Japan, Department of Neurosurgery, Komaki City Hospital, Japan and Department of Neurosurgery, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan Received for publication July 2, 2015; Accepted for publication July 13, 2015 Correspondence to Dr. Joe Senda, senda1@med.nagoya-u.ac.jpUnenhanced computed tomography scans obtained on admission revealed spontaneous hyperdensity in the lumen of the BA as a hyperintense BA sign . Diffusion-weighted images (DWI) of intracranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed acute infarcts in the middle and both sides of the pons , and unenhanced magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) demonstrated occlusion of the BA involving the right VA . Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) (0.6 mg/kg of alteplase, with 10% given as a bolus followed by continuous infusion of the remainder over 1 hour, which is lower than the internationally approved dose of 0.9 mg/kg) (7) was administered intravenously to the patient three hours after the onset of symptoms. However, no clinical improvement was noted after one hour; therefore, endovascular treatment was applied. Urgent thrombectomy with brain digital subtraction angiography (DSA) was organized three hours after the time of arrival to the hospital. The blood flow of the right VA was stopped via the right subclavian artery approach before the transverse foramen . DSA via the left VA revealedon MRA source imaging  and three-dimensional fast imaging with steady state acquisition (3D-FIESTA) on T2-weighted imaging  in the right VA, which are representative signs of VA dissection (9). Therefore, we diagnosed the BA occlusion as thrombosis of the artery leading to artery embolism, resulting from VA dissection. Further investigations were all negative for connective tissue disorders, thrombophilia and vasculitic factors. Transthoracic echocardiography did not indicate any evidence of a cardiac source for the embolism. The patient was started on oral antiplatelet therapy with cilostazol (200 mg/day). She rapidly improved and was discharged on day 20, with minimal ataxia of the right lower limb. On follow-up three months later, she showed no residual neurological deficits.
