The patient initially presented as a transfer to our tertiary care facility at 8 days of life for a large intracranial mass. He was born full term with a head circumference at 97th percentile and a tight full fontanelle. He had no obvious motor deficit. An MRI was performed at an outside facility and demonstrated a large right fronto-parieto-temporal lesion, with complex heterogenous enhancement pattern with associated areas of hemorrhage, prominent vascular channels, and a possible venous aneurysm . Based on the MRI findings, it was felt that this lesion could be a high-grade neoplasm. He was taken to the operating room for large fronto-tempo-parietal craniotomy with an intention of resection if the histopathology wassuggestive of a low grade tumor. The tumor was encountered very near the surface of the brain. Resection was started laterally in the temporal region. The tumor was extremely vascular, and after a sizeable specimen was removed, hemostasis was achieved with difficulty. Intraoperative frozen section was consistent with high-grade astrocytoma. It was, therefore, decided to not proceed with resection and instead plan for chemotherapy. This decision was made based on the size, vascularity, and pathology of the tumor. An external ventricular drain was also placed at the time of this surgery and subsequently internalized as a shunt. The permanent section confirmed the frozen section diagnosis of a high grade astrocytoma . He was assessed by the oncology service and underwent six cycles of chemotherapy. The patient did quite well with chemotherapy. He continued to grow and meet normal developmental milestones. He had regular follow-up in our clinic, and his parents were interested in pursuing aggressive surgical treatment. A followup MRI at 6 months of age revealed stable size of the tumor and increased size of a medially located rather well-defined lesion which had initially been felt to be an associated venous aneurysm . A subsequent MR showed further increase in the size of the aneurysm, and time of flight imaging this time suggested an arterial aneurysm. The risks and benefits of pursuing resection of both lesions were discussed at length with the family as well as in the multidisciplinary neurooncology tumor board, and it was decided to proceed with surgical resection. Preoperative angiogram was planned for delineation of the aneurysm and possible embolization, as well as embolization of this extremely vascular tumor. The tumor was fed from both internal and external carotid arteries. The external carotid component from a branch of the middle meningeal artery was successfully embolized. The MR Axial T1 with contrast images demonstrated large right sided lesion at birth with an area of focal well defined hypointensity on T2 (white arrow) with enhancement on T1 contrasted images, representing the associated aneurysm Pathology slides from first surgery showed characteristics of high-grade glioma. Specimen has high cellularity, most of the cells stains positive for GFAP with a relatively high Ki-67 proliferation index (25–30 %). There is no connective tissue, and all of the neuronal marker (Neu, Synaptophysin and NFP) are negative. CD34 shows abundant capillaries but no staining in tumor cells aneurysm was located on a distal frontal branch of the anterior cerebral artery and filled from injections to ACA and MCA precluding embolization . Resection was carried out in two stages. First, a large right fronto-parieto-temporal craniotomy was performed utilizing the same bone flap that was fashioned in the initial surgery. The tumor was readily identified on the surface. A thickwalled aneurysm was located between the tumor and the falx in the interhemispheric fissure. Intraoperative doppler ultrasound was used to confirm the presence of blood flow to the aneurysm. The feeding branch from the ACA was identified. The aneurysm was located on the lateral side of the vessel with a very wide neck. Since the distal part of the vessel seemed to be supplying the tumour, it was coagulated and cut proximal to the aneurysm. Ultrasound was used to confirm cessation of flow to the aneurysm after securing the feeding vessels. Subsequent circumferential dissection was performed, and roughly three quarters of tumor was safely resected . By this time, the patient had required replacement of threequarters of his total blood volume. It was therefore decided to delay the remainder of the resection to a second stage several days later. Meticulous hemostasis was achieved, the bone flap replaced, and scalp re-approximated. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit. The patient did well postoperatively. He was medically optimized and recovered well from his initial operation. He returned to the operating room several days later for second stage resection of residual tumor. A gross total resection was achieved without any intraoperative complications . The patient recovered well without any permanent neurologic deficits. Final pathology was consistent with desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma and giant arterial aneurysm .
