Patient 1 . A 51-year-old man presented with a 3-hour history of right facial palsy, mild hemiparesis and hemiparesthesia. The National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score was 4. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a small left parietal hyperintensity on diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), and poor opacification of the left ICA. Intravenous tPA was given at 3.5 hours, with initial improvement; however, the patient deteriorated 3 hours later with a decreased level of consciousness, dysphasia and dense right hemiplegia (NIHSS 14). Immediate plain computed tomography (CT) of the brain showed no intracerebral hemorrhage or large territory infarct. The patient was taken to the angiography suite, where angiography revealed a severe left C1 segment stenosis and a left M1 occlusion. Pre-operatively, the patient was given a loading dose of aspirin 300 mg and clopidogrel 300 mg. Under general anesthesia and systemic heparinization, an 8 Fr guiding catheter was advanced into the left common carotid artery (CCA). The C1 stenosis was dilated first with a 3.0 Â 20 mm Aviator balloon (Cordis, NJ, USA), after which a FilterWire embolic protection device (EPD) (Boston Scientific, MA, USA) was advanced to the C2 segment, followed by deployment of a 9 Â 30 mm Carotid Wallstent (Boston Scientific, MA, USA) across the stenotic area. Without withdrawal of the stent delivery shaft or use of the FilterWire retrieval device, the guiding catheter was advanced coaxially over the stent delivery shaft through the carotid stent to the distal C1 segment, and then the guiding catheter was used as the retrieval apparatus for both the stent delivery system and the FilterWire. Thrombectomy of the MCA occlusion was successfully performed with a 4 Â 20 mm Solitaire AB device (eV3, MN, USA), achieving a Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction (TICI) grade of 3. The Solitaire device was then retrieved via the guiding catheter bypassing the stent. At 24 hours, the patient had an NIHSS score of 10; follow-up CT and computed tomography angiography (CTA) showed a small left centrum semiovale infarct and patent left ICA and MCA. After a short course of rehabilitation, the NIHSS was 3 and modified Rankin Scale (mRS) was 1 on discharge. The mRS was 1 at 3-month follow-up.Patient 2 . A 70-year-old man presented with a history of dysphasia and right-sided weakness for 6 hours. On admission, the patient had gaze deviation to the left, expressive and receptive dysphasia, right facial palsy and right dense hemiplegia (NIHSS 16). MRI showed hyperintensity of left basal ganglia and corona radiata on DWI, poor opacification of the left ICA and a left M1 origin occlusion. The patient was given a loading dose of aspirin 300 mg and clopidogrel 300 mg. Under general anesthesia and systemic heparinization, immediate angiography showed a severe left C1 stenosis and left M1 origin occlusion. An 8 Fr guiding catheter was placed in the left CCA proximal to the site of stenosis. A microwire and a microcatheter were negotiated coaxially though the left ICA origin stenosis to the left distal M1. Selective angiography via the microcatheter revealed patent distal branches beyond the M1 occlusion. Thrombectomy of the M1 occlusion was attempted using a 4 Â 20 mm Solitaire AB device. Angiography showed failed MCA recanalization and occlusion of the ICA origin, possibly due to dissection induced by the passage of the thrombectomy device through the carotid stenosis. A microcatheter and a microwire were advanced coaxially through the site of the ICA occlusion. After confirmation of microcatheter placement in the true lumen by selective angiography, a microwire was introduced to guide the placement of a Spider EPD (ev3, MN, USA). Pre-dilation was performed with a 3.0 Â 30 mm Aviator balloon, followed by deployment of a 9 Â 30 mm Carotid Wallstent across the internal carotid origin occluded segment. Poststenting angiography showed no significant residual stenosis of the left ICA origin but persistent occlusion of the left M1 (TICI 0). As the intervention procedure had already lasted 2.5 hours, more than 8 hours past the symptom onset time, the procedure was abandoned due to possible futility of recanalization and increased risk of hemorrhage. Follow-up CTA at 24 hours showed recanalization of the left MCA. The mRS on follow-up at 3 months was 1.
