case 1 A 2-year-old boy fell out of bed the evening before presentation. The following morning he was unresponsive, with irregular breathing and right-sided weakness. He was taken by ambulance to a regional base hospital (449 km from Sydney); his Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score was 6. The right pupil was fixed and dilated, and the left pupil was poorly reactive. A large scalp hematoma was evident. He was sedated, ventilated, and given hypertonic saline. Cerebral CT demonstrated a large, right-sided extradural hematoma (EDH), with a greater than 2-cm midline shift, complicated by a posterior cerebral artery territory infarction. NETS was contacted at 5:01 am while the ambulance was en route with the patient to the regional base hospital. An NETS team accompanied by a neurosurgeon was dispatched at 7:00 am by fixed wing aircraft, arriving at the hospital at 8:39 am. A right temporal craniotomy was performed 3:35 hours after initial presentation. The intraoperative findings were a right temporal EDH with a single middle meningeal artery bleeding point identified and coagulated. Following the craniotomy, the patient's condition stabilized, and he was transported to a tertiary pediatric intensive care unit (PICU), arriving at 2:37 pm. A postoperative CT scan demonstrated complete evacuation of the EDH, with a right posterior cerebral artery territory infarct consistent with previously raised intracranial pressure (ICP). Postoperative MRI revealed diffuse hyperintense areas in the right temporal and occipital regions, in the superior cerebellar regions on the left and posterior aspect of the midbrain, and also a small interhemispheric subdural hematoma on the left side. The patient had a prolonged hospital stay requiring rehabilitation. Neurological deficits included a right hemiplegia, right cranial nerve III and VII palsies, and left homonymous hemianopia. An 11-year-old girl had complained of headache the preceding night. The following morning she was having seizures and was taken to the emergency department at a large regional base hospital (199 km from Sydney). She presented at 11:50 am with a dilated right pupil and was sedated, ventilated, and given mannitol. A cerebral CT scan demonstrated a large right ICH with midline shift and intraventricular extension . NETS was contacted at 12:41 pm. Severe storms prevented the use of fixed or rotary wing aircraft; thus the neurosurgeon and retrieval team departed in the NETS road ambulance at 1:05 pm. and traveled under emergency driving conditions, arriving at the hospital at 3:46 pm. While the team was en route, arrangements were made for the patient to be prepared for craniotomy. A right parietal craniotomy was performed. On opening the dura, the thin cortical region directly over the hematoma was bulging under significant pressure. A large arterial draining vein was noted adjacent to the hematoma and was preserved. The hematoma was evacuated and the brain was decompressed by approximately 4:15 pm. Small bleeding vessels were coagulated and hemostasis was easily achieved. An external ventricular drain (EVD) was inserted and the bone flap was replaced using a small plating system. At the end of the procedure, the patient was stable and was transported to the PICU by fixed wing air ambulance, arriving at the PICU at 10:05 pm. Postoperative CT confirmed evacuation of the hematoma. The patient remained ventilated for 4 days. A digital subtraction angiogram confirmed the presence of a small right parietal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) (Spetzler-Martin Grade I). Following extubation she was alert with a GCS of 15 and with a dense left hemiplegia. An elective craniotomy and excision of the AVM was performed and confirmed by angiography. Over subsequent weeks there was marked improvement in her neurological deficit. The time to decompression from the time of first call to NETS was 3:34 hours. Had the neurosurgeon not treated the child at the regional base hospital, the estimated time of surgery at the tertiary pediatric hospital would have been 8–9 hours. An additional 5 hours with significantly raised ICP and herniation would likely have resulted in poor neurological outcome or death.
A 5-year-old boy developed a headache. He then collapsed and was taken to a large urban hospital, 23 km from NETS, arriving at 10:16 am. His GCS score was 11, with pupils equal and reacting. A cerebral CT scan demonstrated a large right-sided 5 × 3–cm ICH in the temporoparietal area, extending into the occipital lobe, with significant mass effect and uncal herniation. During the CT scanning procedure there was rapid deterioration of the GCS score to 5. NETS were contacted at 11:07 am. An NETS team and neurosurgeon, equipped with the neurosurgical kit, were dispatched by road ambulance. The neurosurgeon reviewed the CT scan en route to the patient and recommended urgent evacuation of the ICH. During the initial call, the pediatric intensivist advised that the patient be ventilated, given dexamethasone and mannitol, and be prepared for craniotomy. The elapsed time between the call to NETS to the start of surgery was 1:12 hours. A small craniotomy was performed, and a large hematoma was evacuated. Large blood vessels in the depths of the hematoma were noted to appear abnormal and were directly coagulated, achieving hemostasis. An EVD was inserted. At the end of the procedure, the patient was transported with NETS by road ambulance to a tertiary PICU. During transport, the patient exhibited a short period of hypertension, requiring EVD release with good effect. The patient subsequently underwent digital subtraction angiography, and no vessel abnormalities were identified. The patient made a full neurological recovery and has not required further treatment.
