A previously healthy 3-year-old girl presented with a 1-week history of cervical lymphadenopathy and pallor. On admission, the remainder of her physical examination including neurologic examination was normal. Pancytopenia was found; hemoglobin 23 g/L, platelet count 41 × 10 9 /L, white blood cell count 13.1 × 10 9 /L, absolute neutrophil count 1.18 × 10 9 /L, and blast cell count 7.73 × 10 9 /L. A peripheral blood smear, flow cytometry, and bone marrow examination showed evidence of precursor B-cell ALL. Cerebrospinal fluid was normal with no evidence of blast cells. Coagulation testing was normal. She was diagnosed with standard-risk ALL.
PEDIATRICS Volume 137 , number 2 ,Treatment was initiated according to the Children's Oncology Group AALL 0932 protocol, including oral dexamethasone 2 mg oral twice daily for 28 days (started on day 1 of the protocol); 70 mg of intrathecal (IT) cytarabine on day 1; intravenous (IV) vincristine 0.9 mg on days 1, 8, 15, and 21; and IV peg-asparaginase (PEG-ASP) 1700 U on day 4. Four days after her IT cytarabine, she refused to walk, reporting a " funny feeling " in her left foot. Left leg weakness, hyperreflexia, and clonus were noted. She was afebrile, and no seizures had been observed. Arterial hypertension was found, with a maximum blood pressure of 130 mm Hg (systolic, >95 percentile) for systolic and 88 mm Hg (diastolic, >95 percentile). Hypertension was treated with nifedipine. A cerebral MRI and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) revealed multiple small acute infarcts in the right frontal and perirolandic region with multiple foci of narrowing and beaded appearance involving the large cerebral arteries ( Echocardiography, renal ultrasound, ophthalmologic examination, and electroencephalography all revealed normal findings. No evidence for systemic vasculitis was found. There was no family history of migraine or thrombosis. Treatment with unfractionated heparin was initiated, and her IT cytarabine was omitted. She was discharged 8 days after stroke onset with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH). However, she developed lower gastrointestinal bleeding. LMWH was stopped, and protamine sulfate was administered. Due to a thrombocytopenia at 66 × 10 9 /L, low fibrinogen circulating level at 0.3 g/L, prolonged international normalized ratio at 2.2, and activated partial thromboplastin time at 44 seconds, she required replacement therapy with multiple blood products. No source of bleeding could be identified. Gastrointestinal bleeding eventually stopped, and she resumed her chemotherapy protocol. A follow-up MRA 5 weeks after stroke onset showed marked improvement of her arterial narrowing. She was discharged without focal neurologic deficit.
(12 days after cytarabine application) revealed 2 large cortical areas of diffusion restriction in the right frontal and left parietal lobes. MRA showed irregular narrowing affecting much of the intracranial arterial circulation (
. Echocardiogram was normal. Laboratory studies, including hypercoagulability panel, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, antinuclear antibody, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, and myeloperoxidase, were negative. The patient has no family history of hypercoagulability or migraine. No further IT cytarabine was given. PEG-ASP was held until repeated MRA showed resolution of vasculopathy. She missed 1 dose but has been receiving further PEG-ASP doses without any problems. She was started on gabapentin for pain and aspirin 81 mg daily for stroke prophylaxis. Follow-up MRA on day 36 of induction showed significant improvement in the vasculopathy, although arterial irregularities were still noted with some areas of progression (
. Postcontrast 3-dimensional high-resolution black blood MRI 2 demonstrated no abnormal enhancement of the vessel wall at sites of luminal narrowing, consistent with vasospasm and not with vasculitis. 3 At that time, the patient was beginning to make some motor recovery. Nimodipine was initiated 30 days after stroke onset for vasospasm prophylaxis and continued for 49 days. At follow-up 2.5 months poststroke, substantial clinical recovery was noted, although mild persistent hemiparesis was evident.
