The patient was a 49-year-old male who came to our hospital due to " sudden severe headache accompanied by nausea and vomiting for three hours. " The patient had a medical history of a space-occupying lesion in the sellar region, which was regarded as a pituitary adenoma and had not been treated. The patient had no history of hypertension or diabetes mellitus. The examination of neurological system revealed the following: the patient was conscious and could answer questions correctly, the left eye vision was 0.2, the right eye vision was 0.5, there was bilateral temporal hemianopsia, and optic nerve atrophy was observed in the fundus. The patient had flexible limbs, normal muscle tension, grade V muscle strength, positive Kernig signs, and a grade III HuntHess classification. The routine physical examination revealed that the skin was delicate, the pubic hair was sparse, and the breasts were developed. The laboratory tests showed that prolactin (PRL) was 1020 mIU/L (normal range, 70.81–566.46 mIU/L), growth hormone (GH) was 0.60 ng/mL (normal range, 1–5 ng/mL), and other indicators did not show any abnormalities. Emergency cranial computed tomography (CT) revealed space-occupying lesions in the sellar region with suprasellar expansion, local bone mass destruction, increased density in and around tumors, patchy hemorrhage, and highdensity cord-like images in the bilateral sylvian cisterns. The findings were considered to indicate subarachnoid hemorrhage ( , b). Further cranial CT angiography (CTA) examination showed an anterior communicating artery aneurysm; the neck of the aneurysm was shifted toward the left anterior cerebral artery, and the Willis Circle was compressed and pushed to the lateral side ( , d). In addition, cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed that the tumor in the sellar region was significantly enhanced, the boundary was clear, the shape was irregular, and the bilateral carotid arteries were encased by the tumor; the tumor size was approximately 5 cm × 4 cm × 3 cm ( , b). Given the combination of the patient's medical history, MRI scans, and laboratory examinations, the confirmed diagnosis of the patient was pituitary adenoma apoplexy and a ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm. Anterior communicating artery aneurysm clipping and tumor resection were scheduled. The surgery used the left pterional approach. The tumor was observed in the optic chiasm space; after the tumor was partially resected, the sample was immediately sent for a pathological examination. The pathological hematoxylin-eosin (HE) stain demonstrated a diffuse distribution of cells; the shape was constant, there were few interstitia, and sinusoid capillaries were observed. The immunohistochemistry was PRL positive and confirmed the lesion to be a PRL-type pituitary adenoma ( , d). The anterior communicating artery aneurysm was observed after separation was conducted along the A1 segment of the anterior cerebral artery to the anterior communicating artery. A hematoma was observed in the surroundings, indicating the ruptured aneurysm. The aneurysm pointed to the contralateral side. After the neck of the aneurysm was exposed, the aneurysm was clipped, and the surroundings were explored. Thein the sellar region and local bone destruction. At higher levels, the tumor image could be observed, and the boundary was clear. There appeared to be a capsule, the size of which was approximately 3 cm × 4 cm. The density inside and surrounding the tumor increased, patchy hemorrhage was observed, and a cord-like high-density image was observed in the bilateral sylvian cisterns. The findings were considered to be consistent with subarachnoid hemorrhage. c, d Cranial CTA revealed a cystic-like protuberance, identified as an aneurysm, in the anterior communicating artery. The neck of the aneurysm shifted toward the A1 segment of the left anterior cerebral artery. The left anterior cerebral artery was thicker. The Willis Circle was compressed and pushed to the lateral side aneurysm was found to be encased by the tumor. The tumor portion was resected ( –d). After the surgery, the patient recovered well, and his vision was significantly improved. Cranial CTA was conducted again after 1 week of surgery; the results showed that the aneurysm was well closured, there was no residual neck in the aneurysm, and the morphology and course of the Willis Circle were normal ( , b). The patient recovered well and was discharged. After discharge, the patient received gamma knife radiotherapy. After a half year of follow-up, the patient experienced no clinical complications.
