BACKGROUND AND IMPORTANCE: We describe the use of proximal and distal endovascular coil embolization of the internal carotid artery followed by operative removal of a retained foreign object transecting the petrocavernous portion of the internal carotid artery. CLINICAL PRESENTATION: A 20-year-old man sustained a stab wound to the left temporal skull and presented with a retained knife blade. He reported a headache at presentation, but remained neurologically intact with a Glasgow Coma Scale of 15. Computed tomography imaging and subsequent angiography confirmed complete transection of the petrocavernous segment of the left internal carotid artery with effective tamponade by the knife blade in situ and satisfactory collateral flow across the Circle of Willis. Coil embolization of the left internal carotid artery was performed. Retrograde embolization of the petrocavernous internal carotid segment distal to the injury was performed via vertebral and posterior communicating artery access. Antegrade embolization of the internal carotid artery proximal to the injury was completed and the patient was transferred to the operating room for craniectomy and foreign body extraction. Postoperative computed tomography angiography revealed no parenchymal hemorrhage, mass effect, or midline shift, and successful embolization of the internal carotid artery. At 6-week follow-up, the patient remained neurologically intact with no infectious or vascular complications. CONCLUSION: Staged endovascular and surgical therapy provides complete assessment and effective control of damaged vessels when retained intracranial foreign bodies are present. Given the high risk of vascular injury with retained transcranial foreign bodies, this strategy should be considered a safe approach for these challenging cases.P enetrating cranial trauma caries a high mortality, especially when associated with injury to major vascular structures. 1 Retention of a penetrating weapon has been shown to provide partial, temporary hemostasis and to permit successful vascular control and repair. 2 Initial endovascular management of traumatic cerebrovascular injury is increasingly common and in many cases, is the preferred mode of intervention. 3 We describe a case of nonmissile penetrating transection of the internal carotid artery at the skull base with retained knife blade. Successful therapeutic intervention involved endovascular coil embolization of the proximal and distal internal carotid artery followed by operative decompression, hematoma evacuation, and foreign body removal.
