A 12-year-old boy was admitted to the pediatric emergency department with a sudden onset of severe headache, leftsided weakness, unsteadiness, and dysarthria. Further detailed history revealed that he was suffering from intermittent bouts of nausea and vomiting for several months, with increasing frequency (almost daily since the previous 10 days before presentation) and persistent low-grade headache since 4 days. There was a report of tick bites during the preceding summer, but no history of ''erythema migrans.'' On admission, he was confused, intermittently disoriented, and complaining of headache; clinical examination revealed a left central facial paresis, mild left hemiparesis, and meningeal signs, but his speech was normal. An emergency computed tomographic (CT) scan did not show any parenchymal changes, but a decrease in the distal collaterals in the right middle cerebral artery territory was observed . Cerebrospinal fluid study revealed marked pleocytosis (1152 leucocytes, 61% neutrophils, 39% lymphocytes), a very high protein content of 4.5 g/L (normal values 0.15-0.45 g/L), and a low glucose level of 0.7 mmol/L (normal values 2.8-4 mmol/L), with slightly elevated blood glucose (8 mmol/L). A brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (1.5 Tesla) performed on day 1 showed subtle narrowing of the left middle cerebral artery and of both anterior cerebral arteries on magnetic resonance angiography, without evidence of associated ischemic parenchymal lesions on diffusion-weighted imaging. A broad-spectrum antimicrobial treatment was initiated with ceftriaxone, vancomycin, and acyclovir while waiting for the definitive etiology. Cerebrospinal fluid bacterial cultures remained negative after 48 hours, and PCR was negative for common viruses (HSV 1, 2, varicella-zoster virus, paraechovirus, and enterovirus). On serology studies, anti–Borrelia burgdorferi IgG and IgM antibodies were demonstrated in the serum and anti–Borrelia burgdorferi IgG antibodies in the cerebrospinal fluid. Furthermore, the cerebrospinal fluid /serum Borrelia burgdorferi–specific IgG index antibody ratio was elevated (4.69 for a normal value < 0.25), indicating intrathecal synthesis and establishing the diagnosis of Lyme neuroborreliosis. A specific treatment was then continued with intravenous ceftriaxone alone. The child recovered from the left hemiparesis, and the neurologic exam was normal within 48 hours. Nevertheless, the patient was still complaining of persistent headaches, raising the possibility of an ongoing vasculitis. A transcranial Doppler examination was first performed that showed an acceleration of the blood flow in the circle of Willis at the level of both middle cerebral arteries, left anterior cerebral artery, and left posterior cerebral artery, suggesting a multifocal cerebral vasculitis—later confirmed by a follow-up MRI (3 Tesla) on day 10. Few punctate white matter lesions were identified along with multifocal vessel narrowing involving the left middle cerebral artery, both anterior cerebral arteries, and the distal basilar artery . Furthermore, a concentric vessel wall contrast enhancement was observed at the site of the basilar artery narrowing . Prophylactic antiaggregation therapy was initiated with aspirin along with corticosteroids (prednisone) at a dose of 2 mg/kg/d. The clinical improvement was remarkable, with rapid resolution of headache and nausea; the child was back to his normal state within a week and was discharged with a prescription of intravenous ceftriaxone (treatment duration of 4 weeks), aspirin 100 mg/d, and oral prednisone for 4 weeks to be tapered gradually.Despite remarkable clinical improvement, brain imaging performed 40 days later showed persistent yet stable arterial abnormalities and vessel wall contrast enhancement but no new parenchymal lesion was observed. Treatment was continued with aspirin (3 mg/kg/d) alone. At 1-year follow-up, the patient was asymptomatic and imaging showed no new parenchymal lesion and complete normalization of the cerebral vessels. Aspirin was then stopped. No recurrence of neurologic symptoms was observed in the follow-up.
