A 57-year-old Caucasian male with residual right-sided hemiparesis from a cerebrovascular event, 1 month prior to this admission, presented with sudden onset of vision changes. He complained his vision was " upside down " with associated headache, nausea and vomiting. His past medical history included pacemaker implantation, and multiple sclerosis in remission. On neurological exam, his National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) was 9 when including his previous residual neurological deficits. Higher cognitive function was mostly intact except for dysarthria, and diplopia on horizontal gaze with right internuclear opthalmoplegia. His old deficits from recent stroke included partial right facial palsy with right hemiparesis (motor system examinations using the Medical Research Council (MRC) grade: 2/5 in right upper and lower extremity), hemi body numbness and intact cerebellar function. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the head without contrast revealed left precentral gyrus hypodensity extending to the hand area, most consistent with an evolving late subacute infarct corresponding to the patient's right upper extremity weakness. Most prominent was the finding of a partially calcified 16 mm fusiform aneurysm of the left vertebral artery (VA) with extension to the basilar junction and beyond. On day 1 of admission, he was complaining of severe intractable headaches and depression. On day 6, he had a sudden decline in his neurological exam wherein he developed complete facial weakness, became somnolent, and suffered a 25 minutes generalized tonic clonic seizure (which was treated with a standard status epilepticus treatment regimen). Repeat head CT demonstrated new hypodensity in the mesial aspect of the left midbrain compared to the admission study. This was most consistent with a subacute infarct in the basilar perforator territory which explained the patient's double vision. Elective right vertebral artery angioplasty with aneurysm stenting of the vertebral artery was performed on day 13. Approximately 2 hours after the procedure his left pupil became fixed and dilated. He developed dense hemiplegia on his left side. Stat head CT demonstrated interval development of acute hemorrhage in the mesial aspect of right thalamus measuring 11 × 9 mm in maximal axial dimensions. There was also hemorrhage seen in the central part of upper midbrain measuring 8 × 8 mm. A significant vasogenic edema surrounding the hematoma that extended up to the lower midbrain was seen ( , B). He was started on hypertonic saline with a target serum osmolality of 300–320 mOsm/kg and serum sodium goal of 150–160 mEq/L (post-operative sodium was 140 mEq/L). On post-operative day 1, there was no change in his neurological exam as the patient remained unresponsive with left fixed, dilated pupil and no movement on his left upper and lower extremity. There was interval increase in the brain stem edema in comparison to brain imaging from the previous day ( , D). Due to the lack of response from hypertonic saline, he was started on intravenous conivaptan. Conivaptan was administered as per the drug administration guidelines approved by FDA with 20 mg infused over 30 minutes as a loading dose, followed by a continuous infusion of 20 mg over 24 hours (0.83 mg/hour) planned for 2 days. On post-operative day 2, after 8 hours of receiving the loading dose of conivaptan, patient started responding to commands and was seen moving his left upper and lower extremities. His sodium was 145 mEq/L. In the next 2 days he was showing significant progress on neurological exam, even demonstrating some strength in his left upper extremity. Repeat head CT on day 18 (after 2 days of conivaptan administration) demonstrated expected hematoma density changes both within the mesial right thalamus and in the central midbrain, but the size of the hematoma was stable compared to prior examination. However, the perilesional edema had significantly decreased, most apparent in the upper and mid portion of the midbrain. The comparison of the imaging at the level of both thalamus ( , B) and midbrain ( , D) showed noticeable resolution of brain edema and restoration of some normal tissue after conivaptan administration. Despite making significant neurological improvements and tolerating extubation our patient subsequently developed respiratory failure presumably due to aspiration pneumonia and his family opted to shift to palliative care only.
