A previously well 62-year-old man presented with complaints of mild right upper limb and facial weakness for four days. He had no other significant past medical history (e.g. recent flu-like symptoms, family history, or autoimmune diseases). Physical examination demonstrated that the patient was well nourished and cooperative, with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 15. However, there was notable right facial droop and grade 4+/5 power in the right upper limb. The rest of the clinical assessment and initial blood workup were unremarkable. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain reported a left, frontoparietal, acute-on-chronic subdural haematoma with rim calcification, associated with mass effect and oedema, as well as a midline shift of 0.8 cm to the right . On the same day, multiplanar magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the brain showed a large, left, parietofrontal, extraaxial mass with a crescentic configuration in its cranial part. The mass was well defined, with linear peripheral rim enhancement that merged with the adjoining normal dural enhancement. The mass showed signal heterogeneity on all sequences. Correlating both CT and MR imaging findings, the overall impression was still a chronic subdural haematoma. In the MR images, it was also noted that there was a small, extra-axial, polypoidal, enhancing nipple along the medial border of the haematoma. This lesion wasABSTRACT Primary malignant B-cell-type dural lymphoma is a rare subtype of primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL). We herein report an unusual case of diffuse B-cell lymphoma that presents as a chronic subdural haematoma without extracranial involvement. The notable aspects of this case include the patient's immunocompetence, a short clinical history of symptom onset, rapid neurological deterioration and a final diagnosis of high-grade PCNSL. This case highlights the challenges neurosurgeons face, especially in the emergency setting, when the disease manifests in varied presentations.on T1-weighted imaging, and mildly hyperintense on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery sequence and T2-weighted imaging with post-contrast enhancement and restricted diffusion. The differential diagnosis from findings was focal proliferation of granulation tissue . The following day, the patient's right-sided hemiparesis worsened, and this was associated with new-onset aphasia. Immediate surgery was decided on in view of the patient's neurological deterioration. He underwent left frontoparietal craniotomy and removal of the left subdural collection. Intraoperatively, it was noted that the dura overlying the subdural area of interest had thickened into a hardened shell. There was no calvarial involvement. The contents of the subdural collection were greenish-yellow and paste-like in consistency. There was no evidence of haematoma or fluid in the lesion. A small, fleshy, granulating lesion was seen on the undersurface of the collection. The lesional dura, subdural collection, and attached granulating tissue were removed in gross total fashion, and sent for the relevant investigations. Microbiological analyses of the specimens showed no evidence of intracranial infection. However, histological examination of the main bulk of resected specimen revealed an extensively necrotic lesion, with areas of fibrosis adherent to the underside of the dura fragments. Within these necrotic and fibrotic areas were islands of medium-to-large atypical lymphoid cells arranged in sheets. These cells contained enlarged pleomorphic vesicular nuclei with conspicuous nucleoli. On immunostaining, the neoplastic cells showed B-cell phenotype, being strongly positive for CD20. There was strong expression of BCL2 and aberrant expression of CD43 in the neoplastic cells. A small proportion of the cells was also positive for CycD1. CD45 staining is negligible in this case, and there was no staining for CD10, S100 and AE1/3. Small numbers of reactive CD3-and CD5-positive T cells, and some CD68-positive macrophages were also present within the lesion. The MIB-1 labelling index was markedly raised . Kappa and lambda light chain restriction studies were considered unnecessary in this case, as the morphological features were fairly conclusive. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) detection via in situ hybridisation was also not undertaken. The morphological features seen were consistent with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. The patient underwent further workup to exclude primary lymphomatous lesion elsewhere in his body. Comprehensive CT studies of his body were negative for any suspicious tumour or lymphadenopathy. Serological tests for human immunodeficiency virus, EBV and autoimmune markers were negative. The patient was referred to the medical oncologist and radiation therapist for adjuvant treatment.
