A female child aged 3 years was referred for the treatment of a swelling on the right side of its neck, which was bleeding in bouts as she had been wrongly diagnosed as a case of cold abscess, and the swelling had been incised. This child had no history suggestiveThe bleeding site was dressed with a compressive bandage ( a), and the wound was not explored at the time of admission since it had bled 7–8 times in bouts and her hemoglobin had decreased to 6 g%. Hemodynamically, the child was stable and had no neurological deficit. However, blood transfusion was done to build up the hemoglobin level. The CT angiogram ( fig. 2 a, b) was suggestive of a saccular pseudoaneurysm arising from the right ICA at the level of the mandibular condyle, though it could not give much information about the right ICA beyond a common carotid bifurcation. An MRI of the neck ( fig. 2 c, d) was suggestive of a mass with different stages of blood coagulation on the right side of the skull base. Digital subtraction angiography of the neck vessels and brain was done using a 5-Fr diagnostic H1 catheter, which showed a dissecting pseudoaneurysm of the right extracranial cervical ICA after the bifurcation of the common carotid artery with no distal cerebral blood flow from the parent artery . There were no dural-pial collaterals or dangerous anastomoses between the external carotid artery and the ICA. The right cerebrum was being supplied by the contralateral anterior cerebral artery and the right vertebral artery ( b, c). Instead of an exchange with a guiding catheter, a flow-guided microcatheter (ultraflow Ev3) was taken in the same diagnostic catheter in view of decreasing the radiation exposure to the child. The pseudoaneurysm was selectively cannulated. Since the artery was terminating in the aneurysm, the occlusion of the parent artery was the only treatment option possible in this case. N-butyl cyanoacrylate (NBCA) glue (25% NBCA and 75% lipidol) was injected into it in order to occlude the aneurysm of the parent artery, which was successfully achieved ( d). An incision scar was present behind the right ear lobule when the dressing was removed after the embolization ( b), and there was no active bleeding. The child was discharged asymptomatically.
