Patient 1 A 24-year old right-handed female patient with a history of intravenous (IV) heroin use presented to a tertiary referral center for evaluation of worsening infectious endocarditis. Initial presentation was 1 month prior, due to a psoas abscess and Streptococcus mitis (S. mitis) bacteremia. Systemic evaluation demonstrated mild aortic insufficiency and an aortic valve vegetation. Penicillin G was initiated. However, the patients later presented with worsening cardiac function and septic emboli to the right leg. Aortic valve replacement planning was initiated, which included brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and angiography (A), as seen below in (a). This demonstrated an IIA in the left fronto-parietal region, along a distal cortical MCA branch. The neurological examination showed the system was intact. We performed diagnostic cerebral angiography ( (b) and
(c)), including threedimensional (3-D) rotational angiography ( (d)). In a cortical left MCA branch, consistent with the precentral or central sulcal artery, a fusiform and widenecked IIA measuring 5.3 mm Â 4.7 mm was demonstrated. This location appeared consistent with either the primary motor or the pre-motor cortex. Given the eloquent surrounding cortex, an attempt at awake superselective Wada testing was made, in the hopes that parent vessel occlusion could be performed. Repeat diagnostic angiography was performed without the use of any sedating agents. Following placement of a 6F Neuron guide catheter (Penumbra Inc., Alameda, CA, USA) into the left internal carotid artery (ICA), road map access of the parent MCA vessel was obtained, with an Excelsior SL-10 microcatheter (Boston Scientific, Natick, MA, USA) via a Synchro2 microwire (Boston Scientific, Natick, MA, USA), as seen in
(e). A baseline neurologic examination was performed, focusing on the right facial, arm and leg strength; as well as on sensation. From a position just proximal to the IIA, we performed the provocative testing: 25 mg of sodium amytal was infused. Repeated neurologic testing demonstrated there were no new deficits. Next, we infused 20 mg of 2% lidocaine. Repeat neurologic testing again demonstrated no new deficits. These results indicated that there was likely a tolerance to vessel occlusion. Coil embolization of the IIA, followed with one Target 360 Ultra 3 mm Â 4 cm coil (Stryker, Kalamazoo, MI, USA) and one Target Helical 3 mm Â 4 cm coil (Stryker, Kalamazoo, MI, USA). We demonstrated complete occlusion of the IIA and the parent vessel ( (f)). Repeat neurological examinations continued, with no new deficits. The patient tolerated the procedure well and spent one night in the neurological A 33-year old female with a significant history of IV drug abuse presented to the emergency department with fever, night sweats, back pain and right hand numbness. She was diagnosed with infectious endocarditis with significant valvular vegetations and bacteremia. We administered ceftriaxone intravenously. Due to the hand numbness, we performed a MRI/A, demonstrating a lesion, which was further characterized by computer tomography angiography (CTA) as a 4mm left M3 segment of the MCA IIA ( (a) and 2(b)). Plans for embolization without anesthesia were made ( (c)). Following the placement of a 6F Envoy guide catheter (Codman and Shurtleff Inc., Raynham, MA, USA) into the distal left ICA, an ev3 Echelon-10 microcatheter (ev3 Neurovascular, Irvine, CA, USA) was placed into the proximal M3 branch harboring the IIA, via roadmap guidance and an Xpedion microwire (ev3 Neurovascular, Irvine, CA, USA). A baseline neurological examination was performed, including detailed motor, sensory and speech examinations. Next, we infused 75 mg of sodium amytal, without any new neurological deficits; so 30 mg of 2% lidocaine was then infused. Initial examination demonstrated no new deficits; however, subtle word slurring was noted in a slightly delayed fashion, at the same time as the reflux of contrast and medication was noted on angiography. After 5 min, the patient's speech returned to baseline. These findings indicated there was likely safety in vessel occlusion, as the deficit only resulted from medication reflux to a more proximal location.A coil was placed in the lesion without deployment (Cerecyte 3 mm Â 4 cm coil; DePuy, Raynham, MA, USA). No new deficit was detected, so the coil was deployed. Two subsequent Deltapaq coils (DePuy, Raynham, MA, USA) were placed in the IAA, allowing for complete occlusion ( (d)). The patient's neurologic examination remained at baseline throughout and after the procedure.
