The proband (ID: 2163) is a 46-year-old female in a Japanese family spanning 4 generations . She became aware of hearing loss around the age of 12, and her hearing loss progressed gradually. She was diagnosed with diabetes mellitus (DM) and started insulin therapy. Furthermore, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) was also pointed out at the age of 32. At the age of 46, she visited the Department of Otolaryngology at Shinshu University Hospital for a hearing examination. An audiogram showed severe SNHL by this time. She had a positive family history of DM, which was harbored in her mother and 2 daughters. Also her elder daughter (III-2) had bilateral hearing loss. At the age of 50, she and her 2 daughters were referred to the Department of Internal Medicine at Shinshu University Hospital for control of their DM. A mitochondrial DNA 3243A>G mutation was identified at this time, and they were diagnosed with MELAS. The mother of the proband also suffered from DM and severe hearing loss, and died of cerebral embolism at age 68. The proband's daughter (III-2) had an unstable status of DM, A C C T G G A C C T G A C C T G K A C C T G IHCM, mild mental retardation, and bilateral progressive SNHL. The other daughter (III-3) had the same manifestations except SNHL, and she had completely normal hearing over time. They were overweight and of short stature. Unfortunately, the proband died of cardiac failure associated with HCM at the age of 57. Her grandson (IV-2) was also suspected of having MELAS; however, hearing assessment using auditory brainstem response (ABR) exhibited normal hearing bilaterally. More recently, her other grandson (IV-1), the son of III-2, was identified as having a mitochondrial 3243A>G mutation, and was suspected of MELAS due to fatigue and mild developmental delay. However, he had normal hearing at the age of 8. With respect to hearing loss status, the proband's hearing loss rapidly deteriorated during 3 years (46-49 years old) and became undetectable. Her daughter's (III-2) hearing loss also progressed over a period of 16 years (25-41 years old). Pedigree and serial audiograms are shown in and 2. Manifestations of each family member are shown in .
