A 56-year-old man presented to the emergency department with sudden onset right-sided weakness and right face and arm numbness. Brain MRI showed a recent left lentiform and capsular infarction with restricted diffusion, and small dot-like diffusion restriction lesions in the right cerebellar hemisphere and right thalamus . National Institute of Health Stroke Scale was 6. He was started on aspirin 100 mg/day. Prior medical history was remarkable for HIV infection with AIDS, treated with lopinavir-ritonavir, lamivudine and tenofovir for 6 months, with good treatment adherence. CNS Penetration Effectiveness score was 6. Cardiovascular risk factors were absent. Cardiologic workup was unremarkable, except for patent foramen ovale. LDL-cholesterol was 75 mg/ dL. Serum VDRL titer was 1:2, with a positive treponemic immunofluorescence assay. CD4+ cell count was 120 cells/ uL, with undetectable serum HIV-1 load (<40 copies/mL). Prior virological status was unknown. CSF analysis showed 65 white blood cells (WBCs)/mm 3 (83 % lymphocytes, 6 % plasmocytes), with 145 mg/dL protein level. Bacterial, fungal, and mycobacterial direct stains and cultures were negative. Polymerase chain reaction for Epstein-Barr virus, toxoplasma, cytomegalovirus, and varicella-zoster were negative. Varicella-zoster antibody testing was not performed. CSF Treponema pallidum hemagglutination (TPHA) was negative. CSF HIV-1 load was 288 copies/mL (2,46 log). Despite CSF viral escape, genotyping was not performed due to lack of resources. Intracranial computed tomographic angiography (CTA) disclosed multiple fusiform dilations of the proximal vessels (showed persistent pleocytosis (56 leukocytes) and elevated protein levels (151 mg/dL). On hospital day 27, the patient developed subarachnoid hemorrhage, with normal CT (Fisher Grade I). CSF was xantochromic, with 38,000 red blood cells/mm 3. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) performed 3 days after the bleeding episode disclosed multiple fusiform aneurysms, with short segments of stenosis and dilations involving distal segments of multiple intracranial vessels, compatible with HIV vasculopathy ( , b). Aneurysms were fusiform and widespread, and not amenable to surgical or endovascular treatment. CNS vasculopathy associated with HIV compartmentalization was suspected, and the patient was treated with monthly high-dose pulse intravenous steroids for 2 months, followed by a prolonged oral tail. Atanazavir was added to antiretroviral regimen to improve CNS Penetration Effectiveness to 8. Follow-up evaluation 10 months after discharge showed a mild residual right hemiparesis. CSF cell count was 45 WBCs/mm 3 and 43 mg/dL protein level. A repeat CTangiogram revealed complete resolution of the intracranial aneurysms . CD4 cell count was 228 cells/mm 3 , serum HIV-1 load <40 copies/mL, and CSF HIV-1 load was 59 copies/mL (1,77 log).
