revealed multiple foci of restricted diffusion, including a few that were new in the bilateral frontal and right occipital lobes. These findings were thought to be consistent with multiple small acute infarcts. Dr. David M. Dudzinski: On the fifth day, transthoracic echocardiography ( ; and Videos 1, 2, and 3, available with the full text of this article at NEJM.org) revealed a hyperkinetic left ventricle without wall-motion abnormalities and with obliteration of the left ventricular cavity during systole. The right ventricular apex was akinetic and aneurysmal. In both ventricles, there was prominent accumulation of sessile, smooth-bordered endocardial material with an echodensity that was distinctly different from that of the myocardium; this finding was not present on the previous echocardiogram. Thrombus in the left ventricle would be unlikely in this case given the diffuse accumulation of endocardial material and the absence of global or regional dysfunction. Apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy could produce a hyperkinetic ventricle with obliteration of the left ventricular cavity during systole but not one in which the wall has an echodensity that is different from that of the myocardium. Thus, the findings were suggestive of endocardial deposits. There was no patent foramen ovale or clinically significant valvulopathy (specifically no valvular thickening, vegetations, tethering, or malcoaptation) and only trace mitral and tricuspid regurgitation. Tissue Doppler echocardiography, Doppler assessment of the transmitral flow velocity and pulmonary-vein flow velocity, and assessment of the color M-mode propagation velocity revealed that the left ventricular diastolic function was normal. Dr. Wylie: Consultations with the infectious diseases, hematology, and rheumatology services were requested. The level of lipoprotein(a) was normal, and testing was negative for antibodies to β 2-glycoprotein 1, SSA (Ro), SSB (La), Sm, and RNP and for IgG antibodies to cyclic citrullinated peptides. A continuous intravenous infusion of heparin was initiated. Additional diagnostic tests were performed.
common, nonspecific findings that are associated with a variety of reactive conditions . No iron was present on an iron stain. Results of conventional karyotype analysis, fluorescence in situ hybridization for the FIP1L1-PDGRFA rearrangement (which is seen in myeloproliferative neoplasms with eosinophilia), B-cell and T-cell clonality testing by means of polymerase-chainreaction assay for an occult lymphoma, and quantitative BCR-ABL testing for chronic myeloid leukemia were all normal. A panel of serologic tests for parasites was performed. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) were positive for antibodies against trichinella (qualitative assay) and weakly positive for antibodies against toxocara (quantitative assay); antibodies against strongyloides and taenia (cysticercus) species were not detected. A single stool examination for ova and parasites was negative; examination of a single specimen, as compared with multiple specimens, has a reported sensitivity of 91% in the microbiology laboratory of this hospital. 18 Serum was also sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); serologic testing was positive for toxocara at a dilution of 1:64 (positive, >1:32), and ELISA was positive for trichinella at 1.46 arbitrary units per milliliter (normal, <0.40). The pathological diagnosis is hypereosinophilia, most likely due to parasitic infection. The weakly positive result for toxocara may represent cross-reactivity of trichinella antibodies with the toxocara assay (or vice versa), and clinical correlation is required.
