A 57-year-old right-handed woman with hypertension suddenly developed right hemiparesis and ataxia in 2010. Eleven months after the left pontine tegmentum hemorrhage, she developed a resting tremor in her right upper extremity. Trihexyphenidyl HCl, levodopa/carbidopa hydrate, and arotinolol were prescribed for outpatient use but were not clearly effective. Thus, 2 years after the cerebral hemorrhage, she was admitted to the hospital for surgical treatment. On admission, no abnormal findings were seen with a general physical examination. The patient was lucid but had ataxic dysarthria and palatal tremor. She also had mild right hemiplegia and a cerebellar ataxic gait. A coarse tremor was present, primarily of the proximal right upper extremity at rest and with posture that increased with movement. The deep tendon reflexes were normal, but superficial sensation in the right upper extremity was decreased. Hematologic and biochemical blood tests were normal. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed an old focus of the hemorrhage in the left pontine tegmentum, and T2-weighted imaging revealed a high signal intensity area in the left inferior olivary nucleus of the medulla oblongata . A surface electromyogram showed irregular grouped discharges at a rate of about 4 Hz in the brachialis and forearm muscles. Transoral carotid ultrasonography was performed to evaluate the palatal abnormal movement. M mode imaging revealed rhythmic movements of the levator veli palatini muscle and pharyngeal wall with a frequency of 3 Hz; this was diagnosed as palatal tremor . Subtotal scores of Part A (tremor localization/severity rating), Part B (specific motor task/ function rating) and Part C (functional disabilities resulting from tremor) of the Clinical Rating Scale for Tremor (CRST) were 10, 19, and 20, respectively, and a total score of CRST was 39. The patient did not want deep brain stimulation (DBS) using an implantable device, so we performed a left Vim thalamotomy. The patient's head was fixed in a Leksell stereotactic frame, and based on MRI, the tentative target was set on a line connecting the anterior commissure and posterior commissure, 5.5 mm anterior to the posterior commissure, and 15.5 mm left lateral from the midline. Under local anesthesia and using semi-microelectrodes, simultaneous recordings were obtained on a track toward the tentative target (Track B) and on another track that was parallel and 3 mm posterior (Track A) . On Track A, at 10,410 μm dorsal around the Vim nucleus, approximately 4Hz rhythmic discharges corresponding to the tremor rhythm were intermittently observed in a wide area . These were observed near the tentative target on Track B. Even when the tremors were passively stopped, the rhythmic discharges continued. Almost no kinesthetic response to passive motion of the limbs could be recorded, and the somatotopic organization of the Vim nucleus was lost. In addition, when the sites where these rhythmic discharges were recorded were widely coagulated, the resting tremors almost immediately disappeared. The palatal tremor was unchanged compared to before surgery. After the surgery, a total score of CRST was decreased from 39 to 20. Scores of Part A, Part B and Part C were 3, 5, 12, respectively. The resting tremor stopped during the month after surgery, almost no action tremor was observed, and the patient was able to practice handwriting. Subsequently, the action tremor again gradually appeared. On evaluation after 6 months, no resting tremor was seen, but about a 2.5Hz (slower than before surgery) coarse tremor with posture and movement was present. The palatal tremor remained unchanged compared to before surgery. The CRST score increased from 20 to 42, and subtotal scores of Part A, B and C were 7, 15, and 20, respectively.
