A 61-year-old woman with a history of hypertension, hyperlipidaemia and carotid stenosis status post bilateral carotid endarterectomy (CEA) , with a reported history of an intracerebral haemorrhage in 2010, presented to the emergency department (ED) after an episode of word-finding difficulty 3 weeks after discharge home after undergoing a vertical sleeve gastrectomy (VSG) for class III obesity ( preoperative body mass index (BMI) of 40.2 kg/m 2 ). Prior to admission to the hospital for her VSG, the patient was on several antihypertensive medications: (1) amlodipine 10 mg/benazepril 40 mg orally daily, (2) triamterene 37.5 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg orally daily and (3) prazosin HClinternal carotid artery stenosis proximally. A neurology consult was placed to help discern the significance of these findings.
▸ I have had high blood pressure for years and was on several medications before weight loss surgery. Now, two years after surgery, I still take several blood pressure medications; given my own medical history, and my family history, I expect that I will need to continue to do so for the rest of my life. ▸ When I was being discharged from the hospital after the weight loss surgery, the medical team told me to just take one of the blood pressure medications I had been prescribed because they did not want my blood pressure to get too low. After leaving the hospital, I did see an associate of my primary care doctor [my doctor was on vacation] to have my blood pressure checked, and it was fine. I monitored it at home as well, and it was within the range the discharge medical team had recommended. However, three weeks later, I felt " off, " tried to do a crossword puzzle [which I do often] but couldn't put letters in the right boxes; I tried to check my blood pressure but kept getting an error message, and I couldn't see the numbers on my cell phone. I vaguely remember arriving at the hospital, but don't remember having a CAT scan, MRI, or my clothing being replaced with a " Johnny ". ▸ I am very thankful for having had the vertical sleeve procedure, as my quality of life, particularly my well-being, has improved immensely. I do hope that the lessons learned from my experience will help future weight loss surgery patients avoid similar experiences.
Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer reviewed.
