An 85-year-old man presented to hospital as an emergency having diffi culties with swallowing and speech. In the emergency department, he was assessed as having acute onset dysphagia and dysarthria in keeping with an acute stroke. He had fi rst developed symptoms 3 days earlier. No other neurological defi cit was recorded. General examination was otherwise unremarkable. He had no other signifi cant past medical history. A chest X-ray showed only a small right-sided pleural effusion. He was transferred to the stroke unit and had a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain scan undertaken on an urgent basis ( . The MRI (including a negative diffusion weighted imaging study) showed diffuse white matter high signal changes in keeping with cerebral small vessel disease, with no evidence of acute infarction in the anterior or posterior circulation territories. The next day (4 days after the onset of symptoms), the patient was seen on the stroke unit by a consultant neurologist (HE).
Further neurological examination was diffi cult given the patient's condition and the intensive care unit setting, but he was found to have become arefl exic, with bilateral facial weakness. Given the nature of his deterioration and the additional possibility of autonomic instability (tachycardia), it was important to exclude GBS. EMG and nerve conduction studies (5 days after symptom onset) were also very challenging. Repetitive nerve stimulation did not show a consistent decrement, so fi ndings were insuffi cient to be diagnostic of MG. There was no supportive evidence of GBS. Active neuropathic changes involving right-sided L4, L5, S1 and S2 innervated muscles were suggested to be the result of a proximal cause, such as acute lumbosacral radiculopathy. The patient did undergo a lumbar puncture, which showed elevated cerebrospinal fl uid (CSF) protein (1.24 g/l) but otherwise normal constituents. On clinical grounds, the prominent fatiguability favoured MG, but the fi nding of CSF cytoalbuminological dissociation clearly raised the possibility of GBS. The patient received treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin (total dose 140 g over 5 days) and did show gradual improvement. Acetylcholine receptor antibodies were found to be strongly positive (59.5 nmol/l). Anti-glycolipid antibodies were negative. A repeat neurophysiological examination (17 days after symptom onset) revealed peripheral sensory studies to be within acceptable limits of normal in the upper and lower limbs. Repetitive nerve stimulation showed signifi cant decrement (10 to 17%) on stimulation of the right median nerve and right facial nerve, supporting generalised MG. Again, supportive evidence was provided for lumbosacral radiculopathy. An MRI lumbosacral spine showed diffuse degenerative changes but only mild L4/L5 level canal stenosis. Currently, 20 months after initial presentation, the patient remains under outpatient follow-up and is continuing a favourable clinical course on mycophenolate mofetil and pyridostigmine.
