This 12-month-old female infant was born at 35 weeks' gestation by cesarian section for breech presentation to nonconsanguineous Philippine parents. Fetal hiccups were noted from 32 weeks' gestation. Apgar scores were 9 and 9. She had agitation, stiffening episodes, eye blinking, and rhythmic arm and leg movements at the age of 1 hour. She was treated with multiple phenobarbital and phenytoin loads and referred to our neonatal intensive care unit at the age of 12 hours. For ongoing seizures, pyridoxal-5-phosphate (30 mg/kg/d, through nasogastric tube), folinic acid (3 mg/kg/d), pyridoxine (30 mg/kg/d), and midazolam infusion were started at the age of 21 hours. At the age of 2 days, midazolam infusion was titrated up to 6 mg/kg/min and another phenobarbital load (20 mg/kg) was given, resulting in resolution of clinical myoclonias. She became seizure free at the age of 3 days and pyridoxine was discontinued. Pyridoxal-5-phosphate dose was increased to 40 mg/kg/d. Midazolam infusion was discontinued at the age of 4 days. Despite no clinical seizures, she was profoundly hypotonic and encephalopathic. A 95-hour continuous electroencephalography (EEG) from day 1 of life showed a discontinuous background for age with a burst suppression pattern consisting of 1-to 3-second bursts of moderate-to-high amplitude 6-to 8-Hertz of theta/alpha sharp waves with an interburst interval of 30 to 90 seconds. Fragmentary and generalized myoclonic jerks correlated with bursts described above . Interictal generalized and bilateral hemispheric discharges did not correlate with any clinical seizures. During recording, initial administration of pyridoxine, pyridoxal-5-phosphate and folinic acid did not show improvement on the EEG. The continuous EEG was consistent with neonatal myoclonic encephalopathy. Full septic workup was negative. Blood lactate was moderately elevated (4.2 mmol/L; reference range <2.2) at the age of 1 day, which was normalized during follow-up. Cerebrospinal fluid amino acid analysis showed a slightly elevated threonine (98 mmol/L; reference range 28-92) and glycine (25 mmol/L; reference range 520) at age 1 day. Repeat cerebrospinal fluid amino acid analysis showed again an elevated threonine (107 mmol/L) but normalized glycine at the age of 3 days. Cerebrospinal fluid-to-plasma glycine ratio was normal (0.02), ruling out glycine encephalopathy. Cerebrospinal fluid lactate was normal. Cerebrospinal fluid 5-hydroxyindol-acetic acid and homovanillic acid were within normal range on 2 days of pyridoxal-5-phosphate therapy at the age of 3 days. She had marginally elevated cerebrospinal fluid 3-O-methyldopa (329 nmol/L; reference < 300) and low pyridoxal phosphate (27 nmol/L; reference range 30-80). Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy were normal at the age of 3 and 10 days; the latter was repeated for persistent encephalopathy. Pyridox(am)ine-5-phosphate oxidase deficiency was confirmed by a novel homozygous pathogenic frameshift mutation (c.448_451del;p.Pro150Argfs*27) in the PNPO gene. Both parents were heterozygous. She had encephalopathy, generalized hypotonia, and minimal suck and gag reflex until 3 weeks of age. A 25-hour continuous EEG monitoring at the age of 3 weeks for questionable clinical seizure activity did not show any clinical or subclinical seizures. The background showed excessive attenuation and prolonged discontinuity for the patient's age with bilateral independent frequent sharp waves in the centrotemporal areas . After 4 weeks of neonatal intensive care unit admission, she started improving clinically with increasing periods of alertness and improvement in tone. She was able to feed exclusively by mouth at the age of 5 weeks and was discharged on oral pyridoxal-5-phosphate and phenobarbital. She acquired age-appropriate developmental milestones according to chronological age. Peabody Developmental Motor Scales Second edition and Alberta Infant Motor Scale developmental tests revealed age-appropriate development at the 6th and 12th months of age. She had no further seizures on pyridoxal-5-phosphate (40 mg/kg/d). Phenobarbital was discontinued and her awake and sleep EEG was normal at the age of 6 months . Her growth parameters (weight 75th, height 20th, and head circumference 10th percentiles) and neurologic examination were normal at the age of 8 months.
