Here we present the case of a 58-year-old left-handed man who was admitted to our hospital. He had chronic diarrhea, hematochezia, and hypoproteinemia, and was diagnosed as having CD on the basis of the endoscopic and histological findings at 51 years of age. He had been treated with mesalazine (5-ASA), adalimumab (ADA), azathioprine (AZA), and supplemental corticosteroids at times of active disease, but he had experienced refractory CD symptoms since the onset of the disease. Three months before his consultation, he had an episode of transient loss of consciousness. T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (T2WI) and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) revealed a white matter lesion in the left superior frontal gyrus ( , b). He underwent conservative medical treatment, because he had no general symptoms and no neurological findings to date. This lesion disappeared on follow-up MRI 1 week later. He developed difficulty writing words 3 days before admission, and had fever of over 38 °C with frequent diarrhea and hematochezia, which suggested exacerbation of CD symptoms. On admission to our hospital, the patient complained of acalculia, agraphia, apraxia, finger agnosia, left– right disorientation, and his neurological status rapidly deteriorated with left-side hemiparesis within the following 48 h. Laboratory data showed elevated C-reactive protein (CRP, 3.73 mg/dL) and hypoproteinemia, in the form of decreased total protein (3.5 g/dL) and albumin (1.4 g/dL). Complete blood count, blood glucose, renal function tests, and serum electrolytes were normal. Serological tests including rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies, antidouble-stranded DNA, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, rapid plasma regain/Venereal Disease Research Laboratory slide test, antiphospholipid antibodies, and tumor markers were negative. Infectious workups including Hepatitis B and C virus, Human Immunodeficiency virus, Influenza A and B virus, Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, and Treponema pallidum were also negative. Lumbar puncture revealed that cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was clear and colourless, and opening pressure was 130 mm H2O. His CSF was normal (cell count, <1/μL; glucose, 72 mg/dL; protein, 16 mg/dL; Cl, 121 mEq/L; myelin basic protein, 61.8 pg/mL; IgG, 2.8 mg/dL; IgA, 0.4 mg/dL; IgM, 0.5 mg/ dL; IgG index, 0.3; oligoclonal band negative), and negative for CSF culture. Polymerase chain reaction test for Herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2, Varicella-zoster virus, and Cytomegalo virus were also negative. Total body computed tomography (CT) excluded malignancy but showed edema of the terminal ileum, suggesting active CD. Chest X-ray and CT showed bilateral pleural effusion, suggesting an association with hypoproteinemia. Head CT revealed a low-density lesion in the right parietal lobe and a hemorrhagic high-density area inside the lesion. T2WI, FLAIR, and diffusion-weighted MRI revealed a right parietal abnormal high-intensity lesions that did not contain a gadolinium-enhanced area on T1weighted MRI . Magnetic resonance angiography revealed no pathological findings, but catheter angiography of the right carotid artery showed multifocal narrowing and occlusion of the distal portion of the right anterior cerebral artery and middle cerebral artery . The venous phase of angiography also revealed multiple cortical venous occlusions in the affected right parietal area . To confirm the diagnosis and exclude other inflammatory diseases, open biopsy was then performed. A small craniotomy directly over the clinically affected parietal area revealed localized subarachnoid hemorrhaging and venous thrombosis. Approximately 1 cm 3 edematous brain tissue including the cortex with a longitudinallyoriented surface vessel, white matter, and overlying leptomeninges was obtained as a specimen. Microscopic examination (hematoxylin–eosin staining) showed inflammatory infiltrates in the vessel wall with extravasation of red blood cells. Inflammatory infiltrates included neutrophils, eosinophils and histiocytes. These findings were compatible with vasculitis, although fibrinoid necrosis was not demonstrated . The patient was then started on high-dose prednisolone (60 mg/day) in addition to the previous treatment, which included 5-ASA, ADA, and AZA. His CRP elevation, hypoproteinemia, bilateral pleural effusion, fever, and gastrointestinal symptoms immediately improved. Moreover, simultaneously with the improvement of his CD symptoms, his neurological status improved, with a reduction of the right parietal lobe lesion on follow-up MRI . He gradually regained normal functional status and was discharged from our hospital 5 weeks after admission without neurological symptoms. No new neurological symptoms and MRI abnormalities appeared in the subsequent 4-year period .
