case 1 A 58-year-old diabetic male experienced a bilateral frontal thunderclap headache while watching television. He had no recent trauma or injury, nor did he have a history of substance use. On examination, no focal neurological signs were found. Noncontrast CT demonstrated posterior fossa hemorrhage and IVH in a configuration typical of retroclival extraaxial blood . Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the predominant subdural location of retroclival blood ( and C). Diagnostic digital subtraction angiograms obtained on Days 1 and 5 of admission revealed no source of the bleed and no evidence of vasospasm . Total spine MRI also revealed no abnormality (not shown). Transcranial Doppler ultrasound showed no evidence of vasospasm. The patient's hospital course included typical measures for intracranial pressure management and cerebral salt wasting followed by an uncomplicated discharge home. At the 30-and 90-day posthospitalization outpatient clinical follow-ups, the patient denied having any symptoms or complaints. case 2 A 64-year-old female experienced the sudden onset of a progressive worsening headache over the course of 1 day. She presented without focal neurological signs. Noncontrast CT demonstrated a retroclival hematoma ( and B). Subsequently, MRI, MR angiography (MRA), and catheter angiography were performed, demonstrating no structural, tumoral, or angiographic cause of the hemorrhage . An uncomplicated 5-day hospital course with subsequent discharge followed. At the 90-day posthospitalization outpatient clinical follow-up, the patient denied having any symptoms or complaints.
A 64-year-old man experienced the acute onset of severe occipital headache with subsequent diplopia. He had a history of hypertension. Admission CT scanning revealed SRH and IVH ( –C). Diagnostic digital subtraction angiograms on Day 2 of admission revealed no source of the bleeding and no evidence of vasospasm . Brain MRI, MRA, and spine MRI revealed no source of the bleed but did confirm the location of blood confined to the retroclival subdural space. The patient demonstrated no clinical or ultrasonographic signs of vasospasm during a week of hospitalization and was discharged. At the 90day and 1-year outpatient clinical follow-ups, the patient complained of occasional mild headaches without accompanying neurological signs or symptoms.
A 67-year-old man developed acute-onset severe headache and neck pain. He became unresponsive in the emergency department. Admission CT scanning revealed SRH and punctate hemorrhage within the fourth ventricle ( and B). Subsequently, the patient underwent cerebral angiography, which showed no cause for the anatomical abnormality . On Day 2 of hospitalization, the patient underwent brain and total spine MRI ( –F),
