History and Examination An 11-year-old boy with a medical history notable for Raynaud syndrome and recurrent rash on both feet was brought to the pediatric emergency room 1 hour and 15 minutes after a syncopal episode during soccer. Following his initial collapse, the patient developed acute-onset dense left-sided hemiparesis, facial droop, right gaze deviation, and dysarthria. On examination his initial pediatric National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score was 16, and inspection of the extremities revealed multiple blanching lesions across his feet bilaterally . Subsequent imaging including head CT and CT angiography demonstrated early evidence of hypodense changes in the right hemisphere ( left) and complete occlusion of the proximal M 1 segment of the right middle cerebral ar-tery (MCA) ( right). In line with current guidelines for pediatric AIS, he was not eligible for intravenous (IV) recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (r-tPA) therapy due to risk for significant bleeding, and instead underwent emergency endovascular surgery for clot retrieval at 3 hours and 3 minutes after initial onset of symptoms. Endovascular Management A diagnostic cerebral angiogram was performed under general endotracheal anesthesia. Selective catheterization of the right internal carotid artery confirmed complete occlusion of the right M 1 segment of the MCA, as well as occlusion of a fetal posterior communicating artery (PCoA) . Mechanical thrombectomy was initially attempted using the Trevo clot retrieval system (Concentric Medical, Inc.), with 3 passes in the MCA; however, only partial clot retrieval was possible, and the M 1 segment remained occluded (images not shown). The thrombectomy was particularly difficult because of significant clot resistance; the retrieved portions of the clot were unusual and appeared fatty, gelatinous, and friable. Complete revascularization of the proximal M 1 segment with thrombectomy was achieved using the Penumbra 041 System (Penumbra, Inc.). Small distal MCA emboli and fetal PCoA emboli were noted after restoration of flow in the proximal MCA , and the Penumbra System 026 was used to revascularize the distal branches of the MCA as well as the fetal PCoA. In summary, we achieved complete revascularization of the M 1 segment of the MCA, the fetal PCoA, and approximately 90%–95% of all distal branches; onlyThe specimen was sent to the pathology laboratory, which confirmed the diagnosis of atrial myxoma . By hospital Day 3, the patient had significant improvement in his left lower-extremity function and modest improvement in the left facial droop. He had continued improvement over the next week and was ambulatory by hospital Day 6. By hospital Day 9, the patient's NIHSS score had been reduced to a 7, and he regained significant strength of 4 to 4+/5 on the left side, with some apraxia. He was also functionally independent, with a modified Rankin Scale score of 1, and was discharged the following day for inpatient rehabilitation.
