Presentation and Examination A 6-year-old right-handed boy with SIOD on peritoneal dialysis secondary to end-stage renal disease and bilateral nephrectomy underwent MR angiography and MRI to assess the extent of cerebrovascular disease. The findings suggested left-sided carotid stenosis and multiple small, prior, white matter infarcts in the border zones of the left anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries . A CT angiogram confirmed a high-grade stenosis of the left cervical ICA approximately 1 cm distal to the bifurcation . The patient was not experiencing neurological symptoms, nor had he experienced them in the past. His neurological examination was normal. We decided to perform a left carotid surgical revascularization to minimize his risk of future stroke. Operation The procedure was performed using electrophysiological monitoring. The patient was positioned, prepared, and draped in the usual fashion for a carotid endarterectomy. Upon identification of the carotid sheath, the common carotid artery was first carefully dissected and the vessel was secured with umbilical tape. Great care was taken not to damage critical surrounding structures. The ICA was dissected superiorly for a distance of approximately 3 cm. After Doppler ultrasonography demonstrated patency of the distal ICA, heparin was given and propofol was administered to achieve burst suppression.external carotid artery, distal ICA, and common carotid artery were occluded with aneurysm clips. An arteriotomy was made adjacent to the bifurcation in the proximal ICA. The artery appeared normal here and had a normal luminal diameter. As the arteriotomy was extended distally, thickened tissue was encountered. Myointimal hyperplasia of the proximal and mid left-cervical ICA was found. This caused an approximately 85% stenosis of the proximal ICA. The arteriotomy was continued past the distal end of the stenotic area. At this point, the clip on the ICA was temporarily released to confirm back bleeding. The external carotid artery was flushed and re-occluded. A Hemashield cardiovascular knitted patch graft (Maquet Getinge Group) was fitted to the arteriotomy opening and sewn in place with 8-0 Prolene suture. The occluding aneurysm clips were removed. Intraoperative Doppler ultrasonography demonstrated patency of all vessels. Meticulous hemostasis was obtained. After 10 minutes had passed, heparin was partially reversed and the surgical site was closed in the usual fashion. No abnormal changes in electrophysiology were noted over the course of the operation. The patient was extubated and taken to the pediatric intensive care unit in satisfactory condition.
