A 9-year old Australian boy with no relevant family history presented aged 5 years with progressive restriction of movement in the joints of the hands , wrists, elbows, and lower extremities. The involved joints were tender without erythema or effusions and the skin overlying the involved joints was not thickened or tightened, inflammatory markers were normal and autoimmune serology was negative. MRI scan with contrast of his hands showed mild subcutaneous and peritendinous oedema without evidence of synovial involvement, while biopsy showed a mild lymphocytic synovitis with a mixture of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells. Overall the presentation was felt to be out of keeping with a diagnosis of Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis. He was treated with a combination of physiotherapy, hydroxychloroquine and prednisolone with minimal improvement. At this time his serum immunoglobulin levels were normal. Two years later he suffered two episodes of acute respiratory deterioration separated by several months. These began with low-grade fever and cough, with worsening respiratory distress over the course of a week, alveolitis on chest X-ray  and requiring mechanical ventilation for more than a week on both occasions. No causative organism was identified despite bronchoalveolar lavage looking for possible viral (multiplex PCR including CMV/EBV), bacterial and fungal causes. He did not develop features of hyperferritnaemia or cytopenias with either episode. He was treated with broad-spectrum anti-microbials and stress doses of hydrocortisone and recovered, however he retained a slowly normalising diffusion defect for some months following the second admission. At this time he was found to have a low IgG = 2.46 g/L (N = 7–16 g/L), but high IgA = 4.19 g/L (N = 0.35–2.33 g/L) and IgM = 4.24 g/L (0.58–2.57 g/L). He had normal T-cell numbers with a normal CD4:CD8 ratio, but an elevated percentage of peripheral blood B-cells (58 %) and almost absent NKT cells. Baseline level of antibody response to vaccines was extremely low for Tetanus, Diphtheria and 14 serotypes of pneumococcus but with a strong response to Haemophilus Influenza. Three months later he developed transient aplastic anaemia with reduction of all cell lines and a bone marrow aspirate which showed a hypocellular marrow, and markedly depressed erythropoiesis, granulopoiesis and megakaryopoiesis. This episode self-resolved, however he subsequently began to have infrequent episodic left orbital headaches, unilateral blurred vision, and occasional emesis. Brain MRI showed areas of infarction in the left caudate nucleus, basal ganglia, posterior limb of the internal capsule and thalamus, with a normal magnetic resonance angiogram . Cerebral angiography showed diffuse irregularity of small and mediumsized vessels in all vascular territories in both the supratentorial and infratentorial compartments , and a fusiform pseudoaneurysm affecting the right posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA). CSF analysis demonstrated a mild lymphocytic pleocytosis and an extremely high protein level = 6.75 g/L (N = 0.15–0.45 g/L). EBV PCR from CSF and blood was repeatedly negative, however HHV-7 was repeatedly identified by PCR in CSF over several months. Atthis time he also reported regular symptoms of epigastric discomfort and underwent upper G.I. endoscopy, which demonstrated a chronic active pangastritis, composed predominately of CD8 positive T-cells. A diagnosis of XLP was considered after reduced NK cell lysis of K562 leukaemia cells was identified in peripheral blood, despite normal NK cell degranulation and perforin staining by flow cytometry. Flow cytometric testing showed a lack of SLAM-associated protein (SAP) expression in his lymphocytes, while sequencing of genomic DNA using a previously described technique , detected a novel missense mutation in SH2D1A, NM_001114937.2: c.96G>C; g.X, 123480588,G>C, resulting in a substitution of an Arginine to a Serine at amino acid 32 in this transcript. This mutation was predicted to be pathogenic (Provean score = −5.78 deleterious http://provean.jcvi.org/index.php, SIFT damaging) and different amino acid substitutions at the same position (R32Q and R32T
) have previously been reported as associated with HLH. Further genetic studies confirmed his mother to be a carrier of the implicated allele, while flow cytometric analysis showed that approximately 50 % of her cells failed to express the mutated protein, confirming her carrier status . Steroid therapy and aspirin thromboprophylaxis were commenced prior to haematopoietic stem cell transplant. During the 3 months from diagnosis to transplant, intermittent transient (c. 20–30 min) hemi-sensory events occurred which were thought to be the result of arterial spasm. Although a cerebral MRI demonstrated new small infarcts in the splenium and corpus collosum, these were not associated with persisting functional deficits. Because of previous reports of a γδT-cell clone underlying XLP-cerebral vasculitis, we assessed peripheral blood using both flow cytometry and a PCR-based system for detection of clonal rearrangements of T-cell receptor delta, gamma and beta genes in purified mononuclear cell DNA (comprehensive Biomed 2 system) , and no such clone was identified. The patient initially underwent a 6/6 cord blood transplant with conditioning including alemtuzemab, treosulphan, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, but failed to engraft and A B Multiple cerebral infarcts in the caudate nucleus, basal ganglia and thalamus seen on MRI T2 weighted images (stroke protocol) in the a transverse and b coronal sectionsrecovery. A second transplant using a 5/6 cord blood and conditioned with reduced dose busulphan and fludarabine engrafted successfully with 100 % ongoing donor chimerism. The post-transplant course was complicated by severe haemorrhagic cystitis secondary to BK virus infection, resulting in bladder perforation. He also had an episode of fever, hyperferritinemia (1892 μg/L), bilateral pulmonary infiltrates and acute confusional state, at the same time as demonstrating accelerated engraftment of NK cell activity and function (NK cells = 97 % of 2.2 × 10 9 /L lymphocytes with exceptionally high in vitro lysis of K562 leukaemia cells (x 3–100 vs. control)). At day +169 post-transplant he developed haematuria and was diagnosed with anti-glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) disease. This was treated with corticosteroids, cyclophosphamide and rituximab with normalisation of anti-GBM antibody levels and ongoing stable moderate renal impairment. With regard to his primary disease, prior to treatment for anti-GBM disease he had normal serum immunoglobulin levels (IgG 7.04 g/L, IgA 0.99 g/L and IgM 0.45 g/L) and is in clinical remission from his vasculitis, with his most recent CSF protein reducing in a linear manner over time (most recently 0.9 g/L at day 415 post-HSCT). Cerebral MRI demonstrates stable lesions with small new foci of white matter involvement in the frontal lobes bilaterally, a probable reflection of peri-transplant changes. Repeat cerebral angiography was not performed because of the risk of contrast to his renal function. Notably, his CSF HHV-7 was negative on posttransplant testing.
