History and Examination A 7-year-old boy was referred to our institution for a small left frontobasal AVM detected with MRI, which had been performed for a supposed psychomotor delay. No neurological deficits were observed at admission. Preoperative DSA examination confirmed the presence of a 1.2 × 1.3 × 1–cm left frontobasal, gyral AVM fed by the frontoorbital artery (from the anterior cerebral artery) with two small non-ectatic cortical draining veins directed individually to the superior sagittal sinus or to the vein of Trolard. Using the SM scale, we classified the AVM as Grade I. History and Examination A 15-year-old female was referred to our institution after a small (< 1 cm), left temporoparietal AVM close to Wernicke's area was detected with MRI and DSA performed for a partial motor seizure. At admission, neurological examination revealed no deficits. The AVM, classified as SM Grade II, was fed only by the parietooccipital artery and drained by an ectatic median parietal vein. Treatment Through a microcatheter positioned right at the head of the draining vein, 1 ml of Onyx 18 was injected and the AVM was occluded. Computed tomography scanning performed after the procedure was negative for intraoperative hemorrhage, and the patient had no neurological deficits after the delayed awakening (mRS 0; ).
An 11-year-old girl was referred to our interventional neuroradiology unit after a hemorrhage in the posterior cranial fossa due to a small AVM (1 × 1 × 1.5–cm) of the left pontocerebellar edge, which was fed by small subbranches of the rostrolateral branch of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) and drained through the vein of the restiform body toward the petrosal vein and the superior petrosal sinus. At admission, the patient was asymptomatic. Treatment A microcatheter was positioned within the arterial feeder, a collateral of the rostrolateral artery, close to the nidus; however, embolization with Onyx 18 from that point was not possible given the danger of reflux in the rostrolateral branch itself along with the risk of seventh and eighth cranial nerve impairment. For this reason, a second microcatheter was positioned inside the nidus from the venous side, and from there 1.5 ml of Onyx 18 was injected, obtaining subtotal occlusion of the AVM (90%). We completed the procedure with an injection of 0.3 ml of Glubran from the arterial side. The final angiograms showed complete occlusion of the AVM . History and Examination Because of recurrent headaches, this 11-year-old boy underwent MRI and DSA, which showed a small (2 × 1.5 × 1.5–cm), right frontoorbital AVM fed by two branches, both from the frontoorbital artery (anterior cerebral artery), with unique cortical drainage toward the superior sagittal sinus (SM Grade I). Treatment After positioning the microcatheter in the superior branch of the frontoorbital artery because of the difficulty in reaching the right position, we reached the head of the drainage vein through the superior sagittal sinus with another microcatheter. From that position we injected 4 ml of Onyx, attaining complete retrograde filling of the arteriolar feeders. The postprocedural CT scan was negative for intraoperative hemorrhages, and the patient awoke with no deficit.
