A 22-year-old woman presented to the medical ward with a 1-week history of generalized headache and vomiting. The headache had become progressively more severe, with a pain score of 8 out of 10. She had 4–5 episodes of vomiting per day, which was not associated with nausea. There were no other signs of raised intracranial pressure such as visual disturbances or altered level of consciousness. She could not recall any recent head trauma and she denied consuming any drugs or traditional remedies. Physical examination revealed an alert, smallbuilt young lady. She weighed 35 kg. She was afebrile, pulse rate was 82 beats per minute and blood pressure was 100/75 mm Hg. There was no neck stiffness and neurological examination was unremarkable. She had microstomia, Raynaud's phenomenon, sclerodactyly, digital pitting scars, tight and waxy skin of the limbs with patchy 'salt-andpepper' appearance, and fine crepitations in both lung bases. There was no lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly. Her previous clinic records showed she had been diagnosed as having cutaneous lupus erythematosus based on a skin biopsy 2 years ago. In addition, she had pulmonary fibrosis identified from high-resolution computed tomography (CT) of the thorax. There was no pulmonary hypertension on echocardiography. Her blood results showed platelet count of 3 Â 10 9 /l, hemoglobin concentration of 7.7 g/dl and white blood count of 2.87 Â 10 9 /l. Reticulocyte count was normal at 2.3% (0.5–2.5%).Peripheral blood smear showed hypochromic microcytic red blood cells and marked reduction in platelets of <5 per high-power-field, no platelet clumping nor giant platelets, and absence of blast cells. Iron profile revealed evidence of iron deficiency anemia. Prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time were both normal. Complements were also normal with C3 of 1.18 g/l (0.83–1.93) and C4 of 0.20 g/l (0.15–0.57). Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) was elevated at 93 mm/hr. ANA was detected at a titre of 1:>2560 (speckled pattern) and anti-dsDNA was negative. Anti-SSA and anti-RNP antibodies were positive. Urine analysis was normal. In view of the sudden onset of headache and severe thrombocytopenia, a CT brain was performed. It showed subdural hematoma at the right temporo-parietal region which extended to the tentorium cerebelli and posterior interhemispheric fissure. However there was no midline shift . She remained alert throughout her stay in the ward with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) of 15/15. She did not develop any signs of raised intracranial pressure or focal neurological deficit. Hence she was treated conservatively by the neurosurgical team. Given the hematological abnormalities, a bone marrow aspiration and trephine biopsy was done which showed mild trilineage myelodysplasia with no evidence of hematological malignancy. The above findings demonstrated a lupus flare with severe thrombocytopenia complicated by SDH. As she had features of both SLE and systemic sclerosis, a diagnosis of overlap syndrome was established. She was transfused with 4 units of platelet concentrate and given intravenous (IV) methylprednisolone 500 mg daily for 3 days together with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) at 0.4 g/kg/ day for 5 days, followed by 40 mg of oral prednisolone. Platelet count rose to 49 Â 10 9 /l on day 2 of treatment and it reached 189 Â 10 9 /l on day 14. By then her headache had resolved and she was discharged for follow-up at the clinic. Our patient defaulted follow-up, and after 9 months she presented with a new episode of generalized headache. She denied traumatic injury to the head. Once again she had severe thrombocytopenia (4 Â 10 9 /l) with an elevated ESR of 86 mm/hr. CT brain showed SDH, this time involving the left temporo-parietal region, with no midline shift . She received 4 units of platelet concentrate, IVIG and IV methylprednisolone, followed by oral prednisolone of 40 mg od. Platelet count rose to 72 Â 10 9 /l on day 2 and 115 Â 10 9 /l on day 10 of treatment, respectively. Azathioprine 50 mg daily was added for steroid-sparing effect and was increased to 75 mg (at 2 mg/kg/day) daily 2 weeks later.Recurrent spontaneous subdural hematoma secondary to IT in a patient with overlap syndrome KG Goh and SG Ong
