A 51-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for elective extracranial-to-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass surgery to treat his symptomatic MMD. The patient first presented 4 years earlier with generalized weakness. An initial examination revealed subclavian artery stenosis, and the patient's symptoms progressively worsened. He subsequently underwent stenting of his right subclavian artery, which provided a reprieve from notable symptoms. The following year he developed right-sided weakness and numbness. Angiograms disclosed occlusion of the left cervical internal carotid artery and occlusion of the right supraclinoid internal carotid artery with extensive moyamoya vessels bilaterally ( and B). An MR image demonstrated an old left posterior cerebral infarct as well as ischemic lesions in the bilateral white matter watershed territory . The patient underwent a left EC-IC revascularization procedure, during which he was extremely hypotensive, requiring boluses of vasopressin and epinephrine as well as a vasopressin infusion. This refractory hypotension was attributed to his concurrent treatment with an angiotensin receptor blocker and aliskiren, a direct renin inhibitor. His postoperative course was uncomplicated. Two weeks later, after confirming that his electrocardiography findings were unchanged from baseline and that he had abstained from his antihypertensive drugs for 24 hours, he underwent a planned right-sided EC-IC bypass. During the second bypass procedure, the patient's core body temperature was cooled to 33°C using a cooling blanket. After harvesting the superficial temporal artery and performing the craniotomy with removal of the bone flap (before the dura was opened), the patient suffered a sudden asystolic cardiac arrest of unknown etiology. The intracranial procedure was aborted and CPR was immediately commenced. Advanced cardiac life support was initiated and continued for 45 minutes but the patient remained pulseless. However, the patient's pupils continued to be reactive, the arterial line showed a mean arterial pressure of approximately 50 mm Hg with chest compressions, and at times the patient was noted to move his arms during this effective CPR despite an absence of intrinsic cardiac activity. In this situation, the interventional cardiology service was asked to insert femoral bypass cannulae for ECMO. The patient remained under anesthesia, and his core temperature was kept at 33°C throughout the resuscitation procedure. Right femoral arterial and venous catheters were placed for ECMO to continue perfusing his organs, including the brain. An emergency percutaneous angiogram failed to show any abnormalities in the coronary circulation and vasculature. The patient was kept on ECMO for the next 48 hours, during which time his cardiac function slowly returned. The patient's recovery was complicated by a pericardial tamponade, which was drained using a pericardial window, as well as compartment syndrome in his right lower extremity, which required a 4-compartment fasciotomy. The patient was followed up with serial CT scanning, which showed no change in the size of his small postoperative epidural hematoma . The patient subsequently made a complete neurological recovery with no deficits. He was later discharged home with no notable neurological sequelae and remained neurologically intact at 1-year follow-up. Although it was postulated that vasoplegia from antihypertensive treatment, coronary vasospasm, and/or exacerbation of a preexisting conduction system defect may have contributed to his intraoperative cardiac arrest, an etiology was never ultimately determined.
