A 4-year-old boy was referred to our hospital for a second medical opinion. He had a history of 2 years of severe cognitive developmental disturbances; 9 months of insidious, intermittent headache and irritability; and an isolated episode of tonic-clonic seizure lasting a few seconds with a postictal period of an hour. Psychomotor and gait disturbances were not noticed by the parents until their 2-year-old son began to surpass his older sibling in neurocognitive development. The patient was treated with oxcarbazepine and was considered for CSF shunt surgery by another neurosurgeon, a procedure to which the parents did not consent. On our examination the infant was noted to demonstrate remarkable psychomotor retardation, was unable to complete sentences, babbled on occasion, was unable to walk, demonstrated mild somnolence, exhibited bilateral papilledema, and had notable facial venous distention. There were no focal clinical findings in the remaining portion of the neurological examination.Intracranial pial arteriovenous fistulas, also known as nongalenic fistulas, are rare vascular malformations affecting predominantly the pediatric population. Hydrocephalus is an unusual presentation in which the exact pathophysiology is not fully understood. The aim of treatment in these cases is occlusion of the fistula prior to considering ventricular shunting. Here, the authors describe the hydrodynamic considerations of the paravascular pathway and the resolution of hydrocephalus with endovascular treatment of the fistula.CT scans from another institution demonstrated hydrocephalus, transependymal edema, juxtacortical calcifications, and subarachnoid dilated vessels in the sylvian sulcus and perimesencephalic cistern . A CT angiogram of the head revealed an AVF supplied by a single branch of the left middle cerebral artery with a large intervening aneurysm draining to a cortical vein . The child underwent digital subtraction angiography , which confirmed a pial AVF with an aneurysmal venous dilation between a single feeder, corresponding toa left M 3 afferent artery, and a vein at the sylvian fissure, with high efferent drainage to the superior sagittal sinus and retrograde reflux of the deep venous system from the confluence of sinuses to both cavernous sinuses and also retrograde reflux of contralateral cerebral veins to the ipsilateral petrosal sinus. Moreover, there were stenoses (hypoplasia) of both sigmoid sinuses, and both jugular bulbs were formed by ipsilateral petrous sinuses. The fistula was excluded from the cerebral circulation by means of embolization of the venous pouch with coils and glue (NBCA). The angiogram obtained immediately postembolization is shown . The child was discharged 3 days after embolization without complications. An MRI study and 3-month posttreatment CT angiogram  demonstrated considerable reduction of the hydrocephalus. The patient has recovered well, and his development thus far has been appropriate for his age as assessed by our neuropsychologist.
