A 56-year-old Chinese woman with a history of diabetes mellitus complicated by proliferative diabetic retinopathy post panretinal photocoagulation, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, ischemic heart disease, congestive heart failure and end-stage renal failure on dialysis presented with a 10-day history of 'fleshy prominence' below her eyes, redness and eyelid swelling. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 20/40 in both eyes with reactive pupils and no relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD). There was bilateral proptosis with conjunctival injection and chemosis. Ocular motility was restricted in all directions of gaze and intraocular pressures (IOP) were 23 and 22 mmHg in the right eye (OD) and left eye (OS). She was only able to read 3/17 plates on Ishihara color plate testing bilaterally. Both optic discs appeared normal. MRI of the brain revealed bilateral dilated superior ophthalmic veins with enlarged cavernous sinuses. Intracranial 4-vessel angiography showed bilateral CCF with many fine feeder vessels from the external carotid circulation (Type C CCF) . She was managed conservatively in view of her comorbidities, probable difficulty with cannulation and potential spontaneous recovery. Over the next few weeks, she deteriorated to light perception (OD) and ability of perceive hand movements (OS), with worsening swelling  and choroidal detachment in the right eye. She was planned for CCF embolization, which was attempted through the conventional transfemoral route. However, due to multiple small feeder vessels and thrombosis of bilateral inferior petrosal sinuses, it was aborted. With persistent visual loss, poor quality of life and prolonged admission of more than 2 months, an alternative approach via the anterior orbit to cannulate the superior ophthalmic vein was discussed. The procedure was performed in a Hybrid Operating Theatre, under general anesthesia with local anesthetic infiltration. An anterior superior orbitotomy was first performed . The supraorbital vein and angular vein were exposed and tracked in an attempt to localize the SOV. However, prior to identification of the SOV, a prominent medial ophthalmic vein (MOV) was identified  along the medial wall of the orbit in the superonasal quadrant, which demonstrated direct drainage into the cavernous sinus. After confirmation of patency by intraoperative angiography ,Superior vortex veins; 8. Lacrimal vein; 9. Inferior ophthalmic vein; 10. Superior ophthalmic vein (SOV). 346 N. C. S. Orbit the MOV was cannulated and CCF obliteration was carried out using detachable HyperSoft neuro-coils (Microvention). After complete closure of the fistula was confirmed by angiography, the cannula was withdrawn, MOV ligated and wound closed. A similar procedure was performed on the contralateral side the following week. By the first postoperative month, the patient showed dramatic recovery with improvement of vision from bare light perception to 20/400 (OD) and from hand motions to 20/40 (OS) with complete closure of bilateral CCF. One year later, she continues to be on long-term follow-up, and her right eye vision has improved further to 20/50 .
A 55-year-old Malay woman with a history of hypertension presented with right eye redness of 6 weeks duration, which was initially diagnosed and treated for episcleritis. Subsequently, she complained of a bulging right eye, associated with blurring of vision, generalized headache and diplopia on right gaze. On examination, BCVA was 20/40 OD and 20/20 OS. Pupils reacted briskly with no RAPD. She was orthophoric and ocular motility was full. Her initial proptosis of 3 mm increased to 9 mm over the next few weeks, with conjunctival injection , but without a bruit over the globe. IOP was increased to 37 mm Hg over the same period. CT scan revealed a dilated right superior ophthalmic vein and engorged right cavernous sinus, with no extraocular muscle enlargement, ocular or orbital lesions . A conventional intracranial angiogram showed a right dural CCF, supplied by branches of the ascending pharyngeal arteries bilaterally (Type C), and retrograde drainage to the right superior ophthalmic vein . Nonpatency of the right IPS on right jugular venogram was noted, and an orbital cut down), distinct from the superior ophthalmic vein (white arrow); (F) appearance of the eyes post bilateral transorbital carotid-cavernous fistula closure with residual ptosis in the right upper eyelid.
