Patient 1 A 67-year-old woman with a known unruptured left internal carotid artery aneurysm presented to an outside hospital with confusion, progressive obtundation, and vomiting. A head computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage. On arrival to our institution, her condition had deteriorated to Hunt and Hess grade 5 and Fisher grade 4, with extensor posturing. A repeat CT/CT angiography demonstrated an increase in subarachnoid hemorrhage with a left-sided gyrus rectus hemorrhage measuring 1.48 · 4.08 · 2.9 cm (8.6 mL in volume) and approximately 6.5 mm of left to right shift. A ventriculostomy was placed, and she was taken to the neurointerventional suite where her 3.5 · 2.9 · 2.7-mm aneurysm was coil embolized without complication. Once this was completed, a reference array was attached to the patient's head, and the patient was registered to the navigation system. The head was prepped and draped for a supraorbital approach. A small horizontal incision was made in a forehead crease, and a twist drill burr hole was performed. The dura was opened, and an 8-French vascular groin sheath (Terumo, Somerset, New Jersey), cut to the distance required to reach the face of the clot, was directed coaxially over the Apollo wand into the ICH under navigation. Through this sheath, the Apollo device was used to aspirate the ICH with intermittent intraoperative flat panel C-arm CT imaging . Once the hematoma was thought to be adequately evacuated, the sheath was removed. A ventriculostomy catheter was left in the hemorrhage cavity and tunneled cranially, and the incision was closed with absorbable suture . A postprocedure head CT scan was performed the next day, demonstrating a reduction in hematoma to 0.95 · 3.4 · 1.9 cm (3.1 mL in volume), representing a 64.7% reduction in size. Postprocedurally, the patient was transferred to the neurosciences intensive care unit where she was closely monitored. She was weaned from the ventilator and extubated. She initially required nutritional support with a permanent feeding tube; however, over the course of the next few days, her condition rapidly improved and her diet was advanced. On postbleed day 14, the patient was discharged to an acute rehabilitation facility and was able to follow commands in all 4 extremities with antigravity strength. At her 30-day follow-up, the patient was living at home independently and was cleared to return to work 2 weeks later. Patient 2 A 71-year-old man was found unresponsive by his wife with garbled speech, facial droop, and right-sided hemiparesis. She notified emergency medical services, and the patient was brought to our institution where the stroke team was alerted. The patient underwent CT angiography that demonstrated a left-sided intraparenchymal hemorrhage measuring 4.6 · 4.5 · 2.8 cm (29.4 mL in volume), with an associated left-sided internal carotid artery terminus aneurysm measuring 7 · 4 mm. The patient's neurological examination was significant for aphasia, extensor posturing on the right, following commands antigravity with the left upper and lower extremities, and a right-sided facial droop.A ventriculostomy was placed with an opening pressure of 18 mm of water. The patient was intubated and taken to the angiography suite where the left carotid artery terminus aneurysm was coiled. Once this was completed, the patient underwent a left-sided twist drill burr hole for evacuation of the hematoma as described previously. There was an 83.2% reduction in the hemorrhage volume and mass effect at the end of the procedure to 2.3 · 2.7 · 1.6 cm (4.9 mL in volume) . Post procedure, the patient improved to follow commands with all 4 extremities, with full strength on the right side and 4/5 strength on the left side. He was successfully extubated on postoperative day 2 and was transferred out of the intensive care unit on postoperative day 4. On postoperative day 9, the patient became more confused and somnolent, and CT angiography was concerning for vasospasm. The patient was transferred back to the intensive care unit for treatment of vasospasm. By hospital day 11, his examination had improved to the point where he was confused but able to follow commands against gravity with all 4 extremities, and so he was transferred back to the stepdown unit. He underwent placement of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt on hospital day 14, and by hospital day 21, he was discharged to an acute rehabilitation facility.
Patient 3 A 75-year-old woman was found unresponsive by family and taken to an outside facility for evaluation, where a head CT scan revealed a Hunt and Hess grade 4 and modified Fisher grade 4 subarachnoid hemorrhage with a 5.2 · 5.2 · 5.1-cm interhemipspheric hematoma (69 mL in volume) ( 5A and 5B). At the time of presentation to our facility, she was arousable to tactile stimuli, following commands with the right side and flexing on the left side. She was emergently taken to the neuroangiography suite where she underwent a diagnostic angiography, revealing a ruptured 2-mm anterior communicating artery that was subsequently embolized (Figures 5C-5E). Once this was completed, the patient underwent a left-sided twist drill burr hole for evacuation of hematoma as described previously. A ventriculostomy was placed for cerebrospinal fluid diversion. She was taken to the neurosurgical intensive care unit for further monitoring. On postprocedure day 1, the patient's examination improved to localizing with bilateral upper extremities and withdrawing with bilateral lower extremities. A head CT scan on postprocedure day 5F and 5G). She was unable to be weaned from the ventilator, and after several family discussions, comfort care measures were instituted per the family's wishes, and the patient was transferred to hospice care 11 days after admission.
