A 52-year-old Caucasian female with a history of psoriasis and hypertension presented to a local hospital with an episode of malignant hypertension. A routine head computed tomography (CT) scan including a CT angiography (CTA) revealed a wide-neck paraophthalmic aneurysm of the left internal carotid artery, measuring 11 Â 11 Â 8 mm 3. Some months later, she underwent an elective stenting of the aneurysm using a PED. She started with dual antiplatelet therapy (clopidogrel 75 mg and acetylsalicylic acid 75 mg daily) one week before the intervention and continued after discharge. The procedure was performed without any complications, but the patient experienced a transient headache a few days later followed by reduced attention span, which affected her performance at work. During the intervention procedure an Arrow 90 cm 6F introducer sheet (Teleflex Medical) was placed in the left common carotid artery. A Reflexataxia. The cerebral CT scan showed diffuse white matter edema frontally and parieto-occipitally in the left hemisphere . CTA showed obliteration of the aneurysm but no vessel occlusion. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed vasogenic edema in the same areas as on the CT, with sparing of the cerebral cortex . The areas with edema showed patchy contrast enhancement. There were neither signs of cytotoxic edema indicating ischemia nor any sign of inflammatory changes around the stent or the aneurysmal sac. A lumbar puncture was performed showing a leucocyte count of 3 white blood cells/mm 3. The level of total protein was 0.71 g/L (normal range 0.15–0.55) and 0.45 when controlled. Glucose in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was 3.6 mmol/L and in plasma 6.2 mmol/L. Routine blood samples were normal and there were no clinical signs of infections. Infections such as fungi and TB were screened both clinically and in the CSF. Due to the prominent intracerebral edema, the patient was started on oral methylprednisolone at a dose of 16 mg four times daily. This led to major improvement of the symptoms the next days, with rapid regression of her ataxia and hemiparesis. Her speech was nearly fluent in a few days. On admission, her blood pressure was raised to 180/100 mmHg and her condition was at first thought to be an atypical presentation of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome. MRI preformed one week after the initial admission, showed reduced contrast enhancement, but the extent of the white matter edema showed no apparent changes . Methylprednisolone had a negative impact on the patient's blood pressure, and this medication was discontinued after 4 weeks. By that time, her symptoms consisted of minimal paresis of the right hand and slight dizziness. A thorough investigation of the possible cause of hypertension yielded no results. Shortly after discontinuation of methylprednisolone, she experienced recurring headaches. A repeat MRI showed further regression of the lesions previously seen, but new areas of contrast enhancement appeared at slightly different locations, although still in the left hemisphere . The MR-angiography showed no changes. A wide set of samples both in the serum and the CSF revealed no signs of pathogens, systemic autoimmune disease or malignancy. Four months after the initial acute presentation, a brain biopsy was performed through a left frontal craniotomy. Microscopic examination revealed a small meningeal vessel containing non-polarizable foreign material surrounded by multinucleated foreign-body type macrophages . The adjacent brain parenchyma contained a well-demarcated microabscess filled with neutrophilic granulocytes and multinucleated macrophages. Stainings for bacteria, mycobacteria, fungi, toxoplasma and other microorganisms were negative. Immunohistochemical staining for beta-amyloid showed no sign of amyloid angiopathy. There was no sign of a neoplastic process. We concluded that this material most probably represented hydrophilic polymer fragments that had embolized to the peripheral vessels during the stenting procedure. The patient was restarted on a lower dose of oral prednisone, in addition to azathioprine at a dose of 2 mg per kilogram body weight per day. She has tolerated this well so far and the condition has stabilized. The last MRI to date, taken 15 months after the first admission to our hospital, showed a substantial regression of the edema in the left hemisphere . The patient is currently still in follow-up. She has improved gradually, but is still on sick leave and is suffering from headache and fatigue.
