A 79-year-old man presented with weakness and worsening claudication in both legs. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a small dot-like embolic infarct in the right anterior frontal cortex. More than 90% stenosis with plaque ulceration was detected in the right and left carotid bulbs on magnetic resonance angiography. Either sciatica or vascular claudication were initially considered as the cause of the patient's presenting symptoms due to the findings of intervertebral disc herniation at the L5-S1 levels and multifocal atherosclerotic lesions of the lower extremity arteries. However, right carotid artery stenting was pursued because of the severity of the stenosis and the subacute nature of the cortical embolism on brain MRI. Antiplatelet medications including aspirin (100 mg/day) and clopidogrel (75 mg/day) were administered for two weeks before stent implantation. A 6-Fr introducer (Flexor Shuttle, Cook, Bloomington, IN, USA) was introduced into the right common carotid artery via the 8-Fr femoral approach under systemic heparinization (5,000 U). Baseline common carotid angiography revealed 90% stenosis of the right carotid bulb with plaque ulceration , and intracranial projection angiography revealed a lateral shift of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA)-middle cerebral artery border zone, with the ACA not being visible. Under the protection of an EPD (Filter Wire, Boston Scientific, Fremont, CA, USA), pre-stent dilatation was performed twice with a balloon (4 mm Â 20 mm; Aviator, Cordis, Miami Lake, FL, USA). The cervical ICA exhibited diffuse luminal irregularities . Subsequent carotid stenting revealed straightening of the tortuous ICA course . An angiogram obtained after deployment of the self-expandable stent (8 mm Â 40 mm; PRECISE, Cordis) revealed a segmental zigzag-like luminal irregularity at the distal part of the carotid stent . The flow through the ICA in the vicinity of the stent was completely arrested following post-stent balloon dilatation . Differentiating between dissection, EPD-related flow arrest, and vasospasm as the cause of this acute ICA occlusion was critically important. A 0.027-inch ($0.68 mm) Rebar microcatheter (ev3) coaxially loaded over a 0.014-inch ($0.35 mm) Synchro microwire (Boston Scientific) was then introduced through the occlusion site into the cervical ICA, which restored the anterograde flow with a short segmental zigzag-like luminal irregularity . The probability of EPD-related flow arrest was presumed to be low upon observing intact anterograde flow through the EPD. A Solitaire stent (6 mm Â 30 mm) was then deployed to expand the arterial wall to sustain the restored anterograde flow, and the blockage was further relieved . Consequently, the occlusionof the distal part of the carotid stent was thought to be related to severe vasospasm, although coexisting EPDrelated arrest or dissection could not be completely excluded. Placement of the Solitaire stent was complicated by fusion of the EPD to the device. The membranous portion of the EPD was not collapsed by the advancing retrieval catheter, and instead the distal tips of the Solitaire stent were trapped in the anchorage of the EPD . After attempted collapse of the membranous portion of the EPD and resheathing of the Solitaire stent, the locked devices were gently pulled back together into the 7-Fr introducer . Final angiography revealed a patent carotid artery with acute angulation distal to the stented segment . No residual spastic segment was seen. The right ACA could now be visualized, suggesting improved brain perfusion. There was no embolism of the cerebral arteries. The patient was hemodynamically stable throughout the procedure and was discharged without any neurologic complications.
