This 72-year-old right-handed retired architect, known and treated for hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia, suffered while driving his car a feeling of faintness without loss of consciousness followed by an acute state of agitation, language difficulties and weakness of his right arm and leg. At admission, the patient was severely aphasic, with fluent paraphasic incoherent speech and severe oral comprehension deficit. He showed severe right-sided hemineglect, a right homonymous hemianopia and a right hemiparesis of arm and leg. Sensory examination was not possible.(NIH Stroke Scale of 12–14). Brain CT ( , b) and MRI ( , d) showed an acute parenchymal haemorrhagic lesion in the left parieto-occipito-temporal region with a moderate mass effect on the temporal horn of the left ventricle. He recovered rapidly during the next 5 days. This was the time during which the somatoparaphrenia episodes happened. He spontaneously complained (pointing to his rightleg) about having something like " a piece of wood " or " a thing " in his bed. On other occasions, he also claimed that it was " the leg of somebody else " that he did not know. Upon questioning, he said that he did not feel it and that the form was somehow changed and that he could not move foot and toes. Inspection of the leg in a mirror did not modify these phenomena. He also was frequently seen hitting his right leg and handled it as he would like to get rid of it (misoplegia). After permission by the patient and under his observation, one of the examiners placed his right leg in the patient's bed under the cover beside the patient's right leg. When only exposing the examiner's leg, the patient misidentified it as his own leg. When the examiner exposed the examiner's leg and moved it, the patient identified it correctly as belonging to the examiner. There were no spontaneous complaints about the right upper limb; upon questioning the patient identified his right arm as belonging to him. While the procedure with his leg was done only on two consecutive days, hand identification was done routinely during every ward round. Specifically asked for he said: something is different with this right hand. If I compare it with my left its too big, too dry, I cannot feel it correctly, I do not know what happened, it might not be mine, but when I look at it, it looks normal. His right hand was every day shown to him in his attended left visual hemispace, either by moving it across his body midline to the left, or by his head turned to the right that the head centred axis would pass at the right of his right hand. He would identify it as belonging to him. When shown together with the doctor's hand, he would hesitate but finally correctly identify it as his own hand. Sensory exam became possible. There was a mild right hemihypoesthesia more marked for the leg. Position sense was normal on the right hand but impaired on the right foot. Right hemiparesis improved more for the arm than the leg. He spontaneously moved both the right arm and leg but frequently failed on verbal request. He was neither confused nor disoriented. He recovered rapidly from his aphasia. Spontaneous speech became normal except for some word finding difficulties and occasional paraphasias. Oral comprehension strongly improved but there remained some impaired text comprehension and severe ideo-motor apraxia. He was unable with either hand to pantomime gestures on verbal command but was equally unable to do so when the gestures were shown to him. However, he correctly performed the gestures when given the object. There was no agnosia. He recognized illusory contours from a set of Kanizsa figures, he recognized images from defragmented figures of a set of Street figures, he recognized objects from a set of unusual (non-canonical) views, and there was no prosopagnosia or visual associative agnosia. There was no anosognosia. When asked why he was in the hospital, he said " I had a stroke ". When asked what really happened, he said " something happened to my right arm and leg ". He had a dense homonymous hemianopsia to the right but also a right visual extrapersonal neglect. He tended to keep his head turned to the left and did not make spontaneous saccades into the right hemispace. There were no exploratory saccades when a stimulus was moved into the right hemispace. He omitted to bisect most lines on the right on a line bisection task and of the few realized lines to the right of the midline mark was displaced to the left. There was no right auditory extinction on double simultaneous auditory stimulation. There was mild personal neglect. He would almost always extinguish right-sided touch on double simultaneous stimulation but at occasions there was sensory misplacement from the hand to the ipsilateral face (allesthesia) or even to the opposite side (allochiria). He usually acknowledged when only the right hemibody was touched. His capacity to point with his left hand to his right arm or leg was fluctuating. At times, he pointed to his right hand crossing the body midline with the left hand on request. By day 6, he became drowsy and later comatose (GSC 6/15) subsequent to an oedema of his haemorrhage with mass effect and he later died from medical complications.
