A 62-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of disturbance of consciousness and left hemiparesis with acute onset. The patient did not have a history of head trauma, surgery, or other diseases such as intracranial infection or hypertension. Her body temperature and blood pressure were within the reference range. On initial neurological examination, her consciousness was somnolent with dysarthria and left hemiparesis. Blood analysis findings, including blood cell counts and coagulation cascades, were within the reference range. Brain CT scanning revealed an abnormal high-density area, indicating right frontoparietal subcortical hemorrhage . Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) of brain vessels demonstrated an arteriovenous shunt around the pterion. This fistula was supplied by the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery (MMA) and drained into the anterior temporal diploic vein (ATDV) ( and B). The DV reached the parietal convexity near the superior sagittal sinus (SSS) on the right side and drained into cortical veins through the falcine vein ( and D). The middle meningeal vein was not visualized. The shunt had no connection to the internal carotid artery. The SSS was patent with no stenosis. The DV was detected as a signal void of the vessel in the diploic layer of the parietal bone on T2-weighted MRI . These imaging findings indicated dAVF involving the ATDV. Intracerebral hemorrhage seemed to result from retrograde cortical venous reflux of the draining pathway. Transarterial embolization of the fistula was planned to prevent rebleeding. Under local anesthesia, a 6-Fr Envoy guiding catheter (Cordis) was placed in the external carotid artery and a microcatheter (Excelsior SL-10, Boston Scientific) was navigated to the anterior branch of the MMA. Superselective angiograms of the MMA clearly demonstrated multiple arterial channels of the MMA connecting to the dilating ATDV , eventually draining into cortical veins through the falcine vein. A diluted mixture of 25% N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate (NBCA; Cordis Microvascular, Inc.) was injected into the MMA. A small amount of NBCA glue reached into the DV penetrating to the shunt . A right external carotid angiogram demonstrated a complete obliteration of the AVF . Postoperative CT scanning revealed a small high-density area indicating a cast of NBCA glue in the diploic space of the skull on the right anterolateral side of the middle cranial fossa . The intracerebral hematoma was removed by endoscopic surgery 1 week after the endovascular procedure . Follow-up DSA 3 months after transarterial embolization demonstrated no recurrence of the AVF. The patient became ambulatory with the aid of a cane at the time of discharge. MR angiography showed no recurrence of the AVF 1 year after the treatment.
