A 72-year-old man with a longstanding history of ischaemic heart disease presented with chest pain at rest. Coronary angiography revealed a recessive and diseased right coronary artery, and an ectatic left main stem coronary artery with a dominant and severely diseased circumflex coronary artery. The left ventricle function was good. On preanaesthetic assessment, a history of transient ischaemic attack occurring 40 years ago was described together with a recent diagnosis of pituitary macroadenoma. During the course of investigating the patient's headaches, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed the tumour, visualised as a well-defined mixed cystic and solid mass in the pituitary fossa. The macroadenoma measured 1.5 cm × 1.3 cm × 1.8 cm, with the mass abutting the optic chiasm and both carotid arteries. An endocrinology review had initially reported a degree of hypotestosteronism, which had subsequently been resolved without medical treatment. At the time of surgery, prolactin, testosterone, thyroid function test, follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinising hormone levels were within their respective normal reference ranges. The patient was euthyroid, and there was no clinical evidence of acromegaly or goitre. In addition, the patient had a normal cortisol response to the short Synacthen test. Based on the patient's stable pituitary macroadenoma status and in view of his coronary symptoms at rest, it was deemed best for surgery to proceed. Following invasive arterial blood pressure monitoring, right internal jugular central venous pressure (CVP) monitoring and pulmonary artery catheterisation, a preinduction intravenous (IV) 200-mg hydrocortisone bolus was administered. Induction commenced with a 2-mg midazolam bolus, targetcontrolled infusion of propofol at 1.5 μg/ml, remifentanil infusion at 0.4 μg/kg/min, and a 10-mg cisatracurium bolus. The patient underwent CABG surgery with CPB and core cooling to 34 o C. Clamp time was 33 mins, while pump time was 74 mins, allowing for two saphenous vein grafts. The operation was completed without any haemodynamic instability. Heparin was reversed using protamine sulphate, and the rate of return to baseline activated clotting time was measured. Perioperatively, mean arterial pressure was maintained at 65–70 mmHg and CVP at 10–12 mmHg, and the patient was extubated within a few hours following surgery. There was no sign of endocrine dysfunction, the patient's postoperative pituitary macroadenoma status remained stable, and his prolactin and thyroid function tests levels remained within normal ranges. On postoperative Day 2, he was transferred from the cardiac high dependency unit to the general ward with successful recovery.ABSTRACT Pituitary apoplexy is a rare, life-threatening complication that may occur after coronary artery bypass graft surgery for patients with pituitary adenomas. The dynamics of cardiopulmonary bypass may contribute to a sudden expansion of silent pituitary adenomas and result in the compression of surrounding structures. A range of clinical features have been described, and the condition requires prompt diagnosis and treatment to prevent further complications. Herein, we present an uncomplicated case highlighting the importance of diagnosing pituitary apoplexy, ensuring high alertness to the condition, so as to prevent life-threatening tragedy due to missed diagnosis.
