A 50-year-old female presented to her General Practitioner with persistent headaches. Physical examination showed normal cranial nerve examination. Serum biochemistry revealed no abnormalities. Cranial imaging performed included a computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain demonstrating bilateral internal carotid artery (ICA) aneurysms extending posteriorly into the suprasellar cistern with compression of the pituitary gland. A catheter digital subtraction cerebral angiogram confi rmed a left cavernous aneurysm  and a right cavernous/supraclinoid aneurysm . Her pituitary function prior to intervention revealed no abnormality  and she subsequently underwent balloon-assisted deployment of a total of 11 coils, a combination of HydroCoils (MicroVention Terumo, Aliso Viejo, California) and Baer 360 GDC platinum coils to the right cavernous/supraclinoid aneurysm. Treatment of the left cavernous aneurysm took place 3 months later with deployment of a 4 25 mm SILK fl ow-diverting stent. Both procedures were uncomplicated. Aspirin 100 mg was used following balloon-assisted coiling of the right-sided aneurysm and this was continued for the insertion of the fl ow-diverting stent. In addition to the aspirin, clopidogrel 75 mg daily was started 1 week prior to insertion of the fl ow-diverting stent for the left cavernous aneurysm. Dual antiplatelet was maintained for 3 months after which clopidogrel was ceased and aspirin continued. No peri-procedural complications were encountered. Follow-up MRI scan 1 year after stenting demonstrated signifi cant reduction in size of the left cavernous aneurysm and occlusion of the right cavernous/supraclinoid aneurysm. However, 18 months following deployment of the fl ow-diverting stent, the patient presented with a 2-week history of headache, lethargy, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea. During investigations she was found to be hyponatraemic and hypopituitary with a random cortisol of 9 nmol/L, T4 of 8 pmol/L and an elevated prolactin level suggestive of a stalk eff ect . Hormone replacement with corticosteroid and thyroid hormone was commenced with resolution of her headaches, lethargy, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea. MRI at this point revealed slight expansion of the coil mass within the right cavernous aneurysm with compression and displacement of the pituitary gland to the left . Regular outpatient monitoring of both her pituitary function and aneurysm status has been continued with MRI/A imaging. She remains on replacement hydrocortisone of 16 mg mane and 6 mg nocte and thyroxine 75 mg daily and continues to take aspirin 100 mg.
