A 34-year-old female with no past history except for headaches during childhood presented to our hospital because of a severe headache. Head computed tomography (CT) revealed right thalamic hemorrhage and IVH. This patient was diagnosed with Moyamoya disease after angiography (Suzuki stage 3, bilaterally). After discharge, she was followed up in our clinic without any medication. One year later, there were no cerebral ischemic lesions on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and no narrowing change of intracranial arteries including posterior circulation by magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). One month after the MRI and MRA, the patient complained of severe headache and vomiting, and was again transferred to our hospital as an emergency. She was neurologically intact. A head CT revealed an IVH. There was no subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in the subarachnoid space. Her blood pressure was stable in the range 110–140/70–80 mmHg without any antihypertensive agent. We administered isotonic solutions to avoid dehydration. Four days after admission, the patient's headache improved and she recovered oral intake. However, on postictal day 14, she again started to complain of episodes ofsevere headaches several times in a day. The headaches were very sudden and extremely severe, returning at short periods and awaking the patient from sleep. Analgesics had only limited efficacy. On the 15th day after the IVH, her level of consciousness became gradually worse. MRI confirmed ischemic lesions in the bilateral occipital areas. There were no findings of SAH by MRI fluid-attenuated inversion recovery images in the basal cisterns, Sylvian fissures and other subarachnoid space. There were diffuse segmental vasoconstrictions on the basilar and bilateral posterior cerebral arteries on the MRA ( (a), (b)). Laboratory data showed no hemoconcentration. Her general condition improved day by day. The headache was relieved and she recovered oral intake 25 days after IVH. There was no suspicion of any infectious disease such as meningitis or encephalitis based on the clinical findings; she was afebrile with a normal count of serum white blood cells. One month later, MRA showed improvement of the vasoconstriction ( (c)), and finally it disappeared within 2 months of the IVH ( (d)). The bilateral visual deficit continued, persisting 1 year later.
