Boffa and Lachassinne, in their review, reported 16 infants with perinatal thrombosis born to mothers with APS. 1 Most of the thrombotic events described in this paper were arterial (80%), and among them strokes prevailed. Very few cases (n ¼ 3) of venous thrombosis were described, essentially in the peripheral circulation. Two of them affected peripheral circulation, 2,3 while in the third case both the peripheral and central circulation were involved, since thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus with right middle cerebral artery infarct was detected in association to aortic and left renal artery thrombosis. 4 Ten cases of neonatal APS were described in the most recently published review on the topic. 5 According to the previously published papers, most of the cases (91%) were arterial thrombosis, mainly strokes (82%). Two neonatal venous thromboses affecting the peripheral circulation were described in this review: 5,6 one neonate was affected by small bowel infarction with renal vein Correspondence to: S De Carolis, Department of Obstetrics, Gynaecology and Paediatrics, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Largo Agostino Gemelli 8, 00168 Rome, Italy. Email: sara.decarolis@rm.unicatt.it thrombosis and the other one by popliteal with common femoral vein thrombosis. To date, only two cases of neonatal aPL related isolated cerebral sinovenous thrombosis (CSVT) have been described in the literature . In the first report, 7 we described a case of fullterm male neonate (birth weight: 3120 g; Apgar score: 7 at 1 min, 9 at 5 min) who developed severe respiratory distress associated with the radiological evidence of pneumonia soon after the birth and a CSVT later. The serially performed cerebral ultrasound examinations resulted negative until the 18th day of life, when a new hyperechoic area behind the right Silvian fissure was highlighted by routine cerebral ultrasound. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a right parieto-temporal sub cortical malacic lesion associated with thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus, extended from its medium third to the Torcular Haerophili and confirmed by the magnetic resonance angiography. Coagulation profile was normal; inherited thrombophilia screening was negative, while anticardiolipin (aCL) IgG (30 U/ml, normal < 19 U/ml) and anti-prothrombin IgG antibodies (61 U/ml, normal <15 U/ml) resulted positive. The mother had neither familiar nor personal history of thrombosis or autoimmune diseases. After the neonatal diagnosis of aPL positivity, she was additionally screened. Anti-prothrombin IgG and aCL IgM resulted positive (30 U/ml and 19 U/ml, respectively) and still present three months later. On the 30th day, the neonate was discharged in good clinical condition. Neurological examinations performed in the third, sixth and 12th month of life showed normal neurological development. In the second report, Berkun et al. 8 recently described a case of a term male infant who developed CSVT. Neither obstetric history nor familiar thrombosis risk factors were present. The initial symptoms were nonspecific, as usually described for CSVT in the neonatal period: lethargy and seizure were the presenting symptoms for this neonate. The diagnosis of CSVT was confirmed by the imaging studies.neous conditions in which there is focal disruption of cerebral blood flow secondary to arterial or cerebral venous thrombosis or embolization, between 20 weeks of fetal life through the 28th postnatal day, confirmed by neuroimaging or neuropathological studies''. The prevalence of the perinatal arterial ischemic stroke is approximately one in 4000–5000 live births, 8 while CSVT occurrence, although much rarer in the general population, appears to be more common in the neonatal period. 9 Despite its frequency, CSVT results in significant mortality and morbidity, probably also due to the difficulty in early diagnosis and then in correct management in the neonatal period. 10 In fact the diagnosis is often delayed or missed altogether. Many clinicians are unaware of the condition; some factors make the radiological diagnosis more difficult in the neonate than in the adult; and, above all, the presentation is often nonspecific. 11 Although seizures were previously described as the most common presenting symptom of neonatal CSVT, respiratory distress, lethargy, irritability, apnoea, poor feeding and jitteriness may also be considered in the differential diagnosis of CSVT. 10,12 Respiratory distress was described as the most common clinical presenting symptom inHowever, some of these symptoms may have been markers of other comorbidities frequently detected in the neonatal period: for example, respiratory distress is a common complication of prematurity and a clinical sign of pneumonia, but can also be seen with the increased intracranial pressure of sinovenous thrombosis. However, understanding what clinical signs and comorbidities are more likely to accompany sinovenous thrombosis may aid in the recognition of CSVT in the neonatal period. 10 In relation to radiological diagnosis, neonatal CSVT has been increasingly diagnosed in recent years, coincident with the more sensitive neuroimaging techniques and the more frequent application of cranial imaging (ultrasound and MRI) in the newborn. Cerebral ultrasound is the preferred method for brain imaging in daily practice in the neonatal intensive care unit. Although the role of cerebral ultrasound for detection of CSVT is controversial, Raets et al. 13 recently demonstrated that with the routine use of cerebral ultrasound with Doppler colour imaging, the incidence of CSVT in preterm infants is up to 4%, very much higher than previously reported. In our case, the diagnosis was made with the serial cerebral ultrasound usually performed after the clinical appearance of a respiratory distress syndrome. The neuroimaging study with MRI serves two purposes: imaging of the thrombus and detecting associated parenchymal lesions. Parenchymal lesions are present in 60–80% of all cases and are more common in preterm born infants. The pathophysiology of the neonatal CSVT is complex and probably multifactorial. Risk factors may be related to both fetal and neonatal disorders, as well as maternal and placental conditions. Gestational risk factors are preeclampsia or gestational hypertension, intra-uterine growth restriction and diabetes (gestational or pre-pregnancy). Perinatal factors include asphyxia, dehydration, sepsis, cardiac defects, meningitis and the presence of an indwelling central line. 14 Male sex is also proposed as a risk factor and it is consistent with the previously reported cases. 15,16 Besides these gestational and perinatal factors, a growing number of reports describe the role of the acquired thrombophilias in women whose pregnancies resulted in the birth of a child with perinatal stroke. 14 In neonatal APS the thrombosis pathogenesis may be explained by both the transplacental passage of maternal antibodies and the production of de novo antibodies by the neonate. 17 The concordance of antibodies detected in the mother–infant pair may indicate the transplacental passage of pathogenic antibodies. In our case, 7 the detection of anti-prothrombin IgG antibodies in the serum of both neonate and mother suggests the role of transplacental transfer of these antibodies. On the other hand, the aCL IgG resulted positive in the neonate and negative in his mother: this discordance between the antibody profile of the mother and the offspring may be explained by a fetal de novo production, suggesting a de novo occurrence of neonatal APS. Furthermore, 10 cases of de novo occurrence of neonatal APS on the basis of the following criteria are described in the most recently published review: 5 (1) neonatal presentation of thrombosis, (2) positive aPL antibodies, (3) negative aPL antibodies in the mother. It is important to note that besides the aPL antibodies, transmitted or produced de novo, additional risk factors were diagnosed in almost all cases described in the literature. So, the acquired maternal aPL or the de novo aPL antibodies produced by the neonate are not sufficient alone to cause the disease: other risk factors, as additional triggers for thrombosis, are probably required. 5,8 Therefore, in the pathogenesis of neonatal APS it is necessary that a second trigger event activates the coagulation pathway, leading to the thrombotic event. 18 Prematurity, indwelling central lines, dehydration, sepsis and coexistent hereditary thrombophilia may act as a 'second hit' mechanism additional to the aPL. 8 In these two cases of CSVT the multifactorial pathogenetic explanation should be assumed: in our case, probably pneumonia was the second trigger event for the onset of the thrombotic event, while sepsis was the determinant for the infant with CSVT described by Furthermore, these cases support a previously reported observation: not-treated women with unknown aPL are probably at greater risk of having neonates affected than women treated with aspirin and heparin. 1 Motta et al. suggested that heparin, when administered to the mother during gestation, is able to bind circulating aPL, limiting the transplacental transfer to the fetal circulation and thus reducing their pathogenicity. 18 In these two cases of CSVT, the mothers were totally asymptomatic: they did not have any history of thrombosis or adverse obstetric outcome. Similarly, in their review, Boffa and Lachassinne reported that half of all mothers whose children were affected by neonatal APS were not known to have APS or aPL and were asymptomatic. 1 Lupus
