A 41-year-old right-handed Asian man was attacked from behind by a cow and he tumbled down. He received a hyperflexion injury when he was struck on the top of his head. He did not lose consciousness but described an immediate loss of power and sensation in both his arms and legs. He was triple immobilized and transferred to the local hospital where cervical spine trauma was suspected. There were no findings from a cranial computed tomography (CT) scan to suggest brain infarction. The unavailability of spine specialists prompted the patient's transfer. He arrived at our institution 6 hours after injury. Clinical assessment in our hospital found a Glasgow Coma Scale of 15 out of 15 but complete neurologic deficits below the level of C5. Plain X-ray film images obtained at this time showed a C4 on C5 dislocation. Further information regarding the severity of his injury was required, and so a cervical CT scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were performed. A CT scan showed a bifacet dislocation with over 50% displacement of C4 on C5 , and the MRI revealed a severely compressed dural tube at C4 to C5 level and high signal intensity in his spinal cord on T2weighted imaging . A sagittal CT showed bilateral dislocation of facet joints. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) showed complete occlusion of his right VA. He was taken to the operating room 100 minutes after arrival. We performed closed reduction and posterior open surgery under general anesthesia. We used pedicle screws on the left side and spinous process wiring for fixation, and local bone was grafted around his C4 to C5 facet joints bilaterally. Plain X-ray film images obtained just after the surgery showed good fixation . He demonstrated consciousness deterioration associated with repeated vomiting and left hemianopsia. These symptoms led us to examine his brain. There were low dense lesions in his right posterior lobe and left cerebellum . MRA showed occlusion of his right posterior cerebral artery and recanalization of his occluded left VA . This seemed to be due to distal embolization of the clot around the occluded vessel. We did not administrate tissue plasminogen activator because actual onset was unknown and because he was on the intensive perioperative management. Left hemianopsia has remained although there was no additional event.
