A 33-year-old Japanese woman first visited Okayama University Hospital in February, 2011 to evaluate numbness in her bilateral lower limbs, a condition that had developed since the age of 29, when she had a cervical spinal cord injury due to a car accident. The patient had no other previous medical history. General medical and neurological examinations showed no other particular findings except for decreased vibration sensation and increased tendon reflexes in her bilateral lower limbs, which were present 4 years after the car accident. Biochemical blood tests showed no abnormal findings. A brain MRI revealed no lesion in fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR; D). However, a brain magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) incidentally found a 3.7 × 3.3 mm unruptured cerebral aneurysm
(CAn) in her basilar artery located at the origin of the right superior cerebellar artery ( , arrowhead). When approximately 80 mL of nondiluted iopamidol (Iopamiron, Bayer Healthcare Inc., Leverkusen, Germany) was intravenously injected as the contrast medium (CM), a computed tomographic angiography (CTA) confirmed the CAn. An MRI revealed a small old lesion in the C5/6 level of the spinal cord, which was responsible for her leg symptoms. With extensive informed consent, endovascular coil embolization was performed through the right Findings of brain and spinal MRI, and angiography after the first admission for aneurysm coiling and after aneurysm coiling. No lesions were observed with axial slices of a fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) image (A-D). Brain MRA showed a 4 × 4 mm unruptured cerebral aneurysm (CAn) in the basilar artery located at the origin of the right superior cerebellar artery (E, arrowhead). Precoiling posterior angiography showed an unruptured CAn (F) and postcoiling angiography showed the occlusion of CAn and the patency of all vessels (G). After aneurysm coiling, left cerebellar, bilateral occipitotemporal, and left parietoccipital lobe lesions were observed with the axial slices of the FLAIR image (L-O, arrowheads) without a positive signal of the diffusion-weighted image (H-K, arrowheads) at 1 month after coiling, which expanded markedly in size at 2 months after coiling (P-S, arrowheads). femoral artery under general anesthesia in which the patient became fully heparinized by 4,000 units of heparin sodium. Approximately 70 mL of nondiluted iopamidol was used throughout the procedure, distributed in one rotational acquisition of 14 mL as 10 standard vertebral injections of 5 mL each (to monitor parent vessel patency and aneurysm occlusion). The aneurysm was framed with a Microplex-10 complex 3/7 coil (Terumo, Isehara, Japan) and filled with 2 Micrus Deltaplush (Micrus Endovascular, San Jose, CA) coils. A HyperForm 4 × 7 balloon (Micro Therapeutics Inc, Irvine, CA) was intermittently inflated and deflated between coil placements. Postcoiling contrast angiography showed complete obliteration of the aneurysm ( , G, arrowheads). During theprocedure, CM was injected only into the right vertebral artery. The right groin was closed by manual compression. There were almost no changes in vital signs such as blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate during and after the operation. The patient awoke from anesthesia neurologically intact and was discharged from the hospital 72 hours after coiling. Although the patient did not develop any clinical symptoms, a follow-up brain MRI at 1 month showed several white matter lesions in the left cerebellar, bilateral occipitotemporal and left parietoccipital lobe without a positive signal in the diffusion-weighted image (DWI; O, arrowheads). A further follow-up MRI at 2 months after coiling revealed the enlargement of each lesion ( S). A follow-up MRI at 6 and 12 months showed a gradual decrease in the initial hyperintense lesions in the left cerebellar, bilateral occipitotemporal and left parietoccipital lobe ( L, arrowheads).
