A 67-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for a detailed examination and treatment of an abnormal mass on a prosthetic aortic valve. Ten years previously, he had undergone the Bentall operation with a 25-mm ATS mechanical valve for aortic valve insufficiency due to annuloaortic ectasia and mitral annuloplasty for concomitant mitral valve insufficiency. He subsequently underwent implantation of a permanent DDD pacemaker for postoperative refractory atrioventricular block and was thereafter followed up annually with transthoracic echocardiography (TTE). One year before admission, a 0.6 cm by 0.3 cm echo-dense mass was found on the sewing ring of his prosthetic aortic valve using TTE. The mass on the mechanical prosthesis appeared to be quite small and it was not regarded as being abnormal. Follow-up TTE performed the next year revealed an increase in size of the abnormal mass to 1.2 cm by 0.9 cm, and the lesion was mobile, without causing interference with prosthetic valve motion . He was therefore admitted to our hospital for a further investigation. The patient had no symptoms and showed normal physical examination findings. A chest X-ray demonstrated no pulmonary congestion or pleural fluid. Laboratory tests showed no elevation of the white blood cell count or Creactive protein level, although the Dslightly elevated at 1.3 μg/mL. Serial blood cultures were negative, and infective endocarditis was thus considered to be unlikely. A brain CT scan showed multiple old cerebral infarcts, possibly due to microemboli. Although the patient had been treated with warfarin under proper control with a prothrombin time (PT)-international normalized ratio (INR) between 2.0 and 3.0, he was suspected of having a thrombus on the mechanic aortic valve. He was then treated with strong anticoagulation by adding intravenous heparin to oral warfarin. The PT-INR value was 2.02 under therapy with 5 mg of warfarin on admission. The dose of warfarin was then increased up to 7 mg, which resulted in a PT-INR of 2.66 on the 12th hospital day. On the 19th day of hospitalization, the patient experienced the sudden onset of right hemiparesis. An emergency brain CT scan revealed no evidence of acute cerebral infarction; however, judging from the clinical findings, he was diagnosed as having acute cerebral infarction, presumably caused by emboli originating from the thrombus on the prosthetic valve. He subsequently underwent urgent re-aortic valve replacement with a 23-mm Trifecta biological valve. Pannus formation was seen, with tissue connected macroscopically with the sewing ring of the resected prosthetic valve and a 2.0×1.0 cm mass attached on the pannus. Pathologically, the mass was composed of platelet aggregates and fibrin and devoid of signs of intense inflammation with bacteria, except for scattered neutrophils, features compatible with NBTE . A culture test of the resected tissue was negative for bacteria. The patient was suspected of having malignant gastrointestinal disease based on an increased carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level of 11.1 ng/mL and positive fecal occult blood test. Diseases associated with NBTE, such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and Behçet's disease, were ruled out, with all collagen disease-associated serological values, such as antinuclear antibody (ANA), rheumatoid factor (RF) and antiphospholipid antibody (aPL) titers, less than the sensitivity limits. After the valve operation, the patient underwent colonoscopy, which showed advanced descending colorectal cancer without distant metastasis, after which he received successful left hemi-colectomy. A pathological examination revealed that the colorectal cancer was tubular adenocarcinoma and invaded beyond the middle layer of the colon.
