Two consecutive trauma patients diagnosed with saccular traumatic aneurysms of the cervical ICA per the institutional screening protocol for TCVI were studied at a Level I trauma center.The pathophysiology of extracranial traumatic aneurysm formation has not been fully elucidated. Intraarterial optical coherence tomography (OCT), an imaging modality capable of micrometer cross-sectional resolution, was used to evaluate patients presenting with saccular traumatic aneurysms of the internal carotid artery (ICA). Two consecutive trauma patients diagnosed with saccular traumatic aneurysms of the cervical ICA, per the institutional screening protocol for traumatic cerebrovascular injury, underwent digital subtraction angiography (DSA) with OCT. Optical coherence tomography demonstrated disruption of the intima with preservation and stretching of the more peripheral layers. In 1 patient the traumatic aneurysm was associated with thrombus formation and a separate, more proximal dissection not visible on CT angiography (CTA) or DSA. Imaging with OCT indicates that saccular traumatic aneurysms may develop from disruption of the intima with at least partial preservation of the media and adventitia. This provides in vivo evidence that saccular traumatic aneurysms result from a partial arterial wall tear rather than complete disruption. Interestingly, OCT was also able to detect arterial injury and thrombi not visible on CTA or DSA.fractures, pneumocephalus, and small areas of extraaxial hemorrhage. Other injuries included extremity fractures, facial lacerations and fractures, and periorbital hematomas. Screening CT angiography (CTA) of the neck demonstrated a saccular traumatic aneurysm of the right cervical ICA. The aneurysm measured 5 mm in maximum depth and arose from the lateral wall of the artery. Treatment with aspirin (325 mg daily) was initiated. On hospital Day 5 she was taken to the endovascular suite for digital subtraction angiography (DSA) with OCT. In Case 2, a 21-year-old man presented after a motor vehicle collision. On neurological examination he had a GCS score of 10T with intact cranial nerve reflexes and movements in all 4 extremities. Computed tomography of the head demonstrated skull and skull base fractures, facial fractures, and traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage. Other injuries included pelvic fractures and multiple extremity fractures. Screening CTA of the neck demonstrated a medially projecting saccular traumatic aneurysm of the left cervical ICA. The aneurysm measured 13 mm in maximum depth. Treatment with aspirin (325 mg daily) was initiated. On hospital Day 9 he was taken for DSA with OCT.
