A 52-year-old man underwent conservative treatment for a spontaneous bilateral pontine haemorrhage at the neurosurgery department of a university hospital; 43 days after onset he was transferred to the rehabilitation department of the same university hospital. At that time, he did not respond to simple verbal commands and could not maintain an alert state for more than 2 h during the day. He also exhibited complete weakness of all of his extremities (Medical Research Council 0/5). To improve these compromised functions, the patient was administered dopaminergic agents. Dopaminergic drugs were started with an initial dose of ropinirole 0.25 mg/day. After 2 days of treatment, the patient remained alert for more than 4 h during the day, and could intermittently follow simple verbal commands. In an attempt to achieve further improvements in alertness and cognitive function, the daily dosage of ropinirole was increased to 0.375 mg. On the afternoon of the same day, 5 h after administration of ropinirole, the patient presented with rigidity, diaphoresis, facial flushing, diarrhoea, hypertension (160/100 mmHg), tachycardia (118/min) and fever (38.5°C) . These symptoms satisfied 3 major and 3 minor symptoms of Radomski's criteria for SS (, and chest X-ray (–). For management of the patient's symptoms, lorazepam (2 mg) was injected intravenously, and the patient was hydrated with normal saline. Muscle relaxants (dantrolene sodium 100 mg, baclofen 45 mg daily) were also administered for relief of rigidity. Ropinirole was discontinued, while administration of other neurotrophic drugs was maintained. The clinical symptoms associated with SS showed dramatic improvement. All of the symptoms, except for fever, disappeared within 8 h of discontinuing ropinirole. After an additional 15 h, no fever was observed, and the patient had recovered fully from SS. A 63-year-old man underwent a decompressive craniectomy and external ventricular drainage for a spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage on the left fronto-temporo-parieto-occipital lobe at the neurosurgery department of a university hospital. After surgery, the patient was transferred to a local medical rehabilitation centre in order to undergo rehabilitative management. Fifteen months later, the patient was admitted to the rehabilitation department of a university hospital for more active rehabilitation. At that time, he was able to follow 1-step verbal commands and he showed complete weakness of all of his extremities. Administration of neurotrophic drugs was commenced (initial dose: ropinirole 0.25 mg/day), with a gradual increase in the following dosages on the 13 th day of admission: ropinirole 0.75 mg; bromocriptine 2.5 mg; amantadine 300 mg; carbidopa/levodopa 37.5/375 mg; methylphenidate 20 mg; donepezil 5 mg; venlafaxine 37.5 mg; and tianeptine 37.5 mg. On the 13 th day of admission, the daily dose of ropinirole was increased from 0.625 mg to 0.75 mg. On the 15 th day of admission, the daily dose of carbidopa/levodopa was increased to 50/500 mg. Diaphoresis and rigidity developed on the evening of the same day, after 6 h of administration of an increased dose of carbidopa/levodopa. The next day, diaphoresis and rigidity had worsened, and diarrhoea, facial flushing, pupil dilatation, tremor, and confusion with agitation were manifested . The patient's body temperature (36.5°C), pulse rate (78/ min) and blood pressure (140/90 mmHg) were within normal ranges. The patient's symptoms fulfilled 3 major and 3 minor symptoms of Radomski's criteria for SS . Results of laboratory and radiology tests performed in order to rule out other possible aetiologies underlying these symptoms showed no abnormality (WBC 5,430/μl, Hb 12.4 g/dl, CRP 0.061 mg/dl, AST 12 IU/l, ALT 6 IU/l, CRE 0.72 mg/dl, serum iron 21.4 µmol/l, TSH 0.4 mIU/l, free T4 17 pmol/l, total T3 1.9 nmol/l, urine leukocyte (–), urine WBC 0~1/HPF, blood culture (–), urine culture (–), and chest X-ray (–)). The patient was hydrated with normal saline, and dantrolene (25 mg) and benzodiazepame (2 mg) were administered for management of rigidity. Most of the dopaminergic agents administered to the patient were reduced to approximately half their previous dosages (daily dose: ropinirole 0.5 mg; bromocriptine 2.5 mg; amantadine 200 mg; carbidopa/levodopa 25/250 mg; methylphenidate 5 mg). Approximately 12 h after initiatingmanagement of SS, symptoms associated with SS had almost completely disappeared. After an additional 12 h the patient had recovered completely from SS.
