A 55-year-old man presented to the emergency department 20 minutes after the sudden onset of left arm weakness while using cocaine. Examination revealed left hemiparesis-hemiataxia and noncontrast head computed tomography (CT) was normal except for bilateral white matter hypointensities suggestive of leukoaraiosis and a nasal septum perforation indicative of chronic intranasal cocaine use . A bolus of intravenous tPA was administered for acute ischemic stroke, with a symptom onset to administration time of 45 minutes. During the intravenous tPA infusion, the systolic blood pressure remained below 170 mm Hg. Immediately after the tPA bolus infusion, a CT-angiogram and postcontrast CT were acquired . While being transported to the neuro-ICU, the patient complained of new headache and right arm weakness before quickly progressing to coma requiring emergent intubation as tPA infusion completed. Review of initial studies revealed contrast extravasation in the dorsal pons during tPA infusion ( , black arrow). A magnetic resonance imaging scan revealed multifocal infarcts and hemorrhages raising suspicion for cocaine–related multifocal vasculopathy. 3 The patient never recovered better than a locked-in state and died 1 month after the stroke.
A 68-year-old man with regular cocaine use presented to the hospital after right lower extremity weakness that was presented for 2 hours and resolved completely. His initial neurological examination was unremarkable, but his toxin screen was positive for cocaine. While awaiting admission for a presumed transient ischemic attack, he developed the sudden onset of right hemiplegia and aphasia. A head CT showed no abnormalities except for bilateral white matter hypointensities suggestive of leukoaraiosis , and he was given intravenous tPA 15 minutes after time last known to be normal. His symptoms began to improve during the infusion. Thirty minutes after completion of tPA, he developed a headache, became nonverbal, and quickly progressed to coma. A repeat CT showed a right caudate hemorrhage with intraventricular extension . After reversal agents were given, an extraventricular drain (EVD) was placed at bedside with initial flow but subsequent slowing. A repeat head CT showed coagulated blood around the EVD . One milligram of tPA was administered intrathecally 20 hours after onset of the hemorrhage, with resumption of EVD drainage shortly afterward. Repeat head CT scan showed radiographic improvement of the hemorrhage , and the EVD was withdrawn on posthemorrhage day 8. A magnetic resonance imaging scan showed multifocal infarcts and hemorrhage raising suspicion for cocaine-related multifocal vasculopathy ( shows a magnetic resonance imaging scan for both cases). Three months later, the patient remained bedbound and minimally responsive.
