A two-day-old term male infant was admitted to our clinic following prenatal diagnosis of coarctation and thoracic aortic aneurysm. On examination, he was pink with oxygen saturations of 95%. There were multiple small facial hemangiomas, hypertelorism, and a bifid uvula. There was a quiet systolic murmur along the left sternal border, no signs of respiratory distress nor congestive heart failure, peripheral pulses were normal, and the arterial blood pressure was 60/40 mm Hg in the arms and 65/40 mm Hg in the legs. Electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrated normal sinus rhythm at 135 bpm, ventricular hypertrophy, and nonspecific repolarization abnormalities. Chest X-ray (CXR) demonstrated cardiomegaly with widening of the cardiac silhouette (cardiothoracic ratio ¼ 0.68) and an area of consolidation in the left hemithorax. Transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated structurally normal heart. There was a significant dilatation of the ascending aorta (z score ¼ 6.3), distal aortic arch was narrowed down to 3.5 mm with systolic pressure gradient of 40 mm Hg, and two aneurysms of themm, respectively. There was left superior vena cava draining into coronary sinus. Clinical geneticist suspected LDS. The spiral computed tomography (CT) at the age of one month  demonstrated coarctation of the aorta with moderate hypoplasia of the transverse arch and two saccular aneurysms of the arch. Left brachiocephalic arteries were hypoplastic. There was an aberrant right subclavian artery arising distally to aneurysms. In our opinion, these two findings explained the absence of a pressure gradient between upper and lower limbs. However, Doppler-derived systolic pressure gradient of 40 mm Hg in the distal aortic arch, taking into account arterial pressure distal to the coarctation, suggested that pressure in the ascending aorta and proximal aortic arch containing aneurysms was significantly elevated. Since the aneurysms were located in this hypertensive segment, b-blocker therapy was initiated with no side effects. The patient's young age and absence of symptoms led us to defer surgical intervention and he was discharged home on oral Atenolol. At the age of one year, he was electively readmitted for surgical treatment. His weight was 10.8 kg and height 81 cm. There were no clinical signs of congestive heart failure and a grade 3/6 systolic murmur was audible along the left sternal border. Peripheral pulses were normal and cuff blood pressure reading in the right arm was 86/40 mm Hg and 77/35 mm Hg in the legs. The ECG was suggestive of left ventricular hypertrophy. Cardiothoracic ratio on chest radiograph was within normal limits. Transthoracic echocardiography documented left ventricular hypertrophy with preserved systolic function (ejection fraction ¼ 75%) and a modest increase in the size of the aneurysms. Uncertain prognosis and progressing left ventricular hypertrophy prompted further review of the management strategy and it was decided to proceed with surgery. Surgery was carried out via midline sternotomy. Ascending aorta was mobilized together with right (8 mm) and left (2.5 mm) common carotid arteries and transverse aortic arch (5 mm). For bypass, ascending aorta and the right atrium were cannulated. After the start of perfusion, left atrium was drained and patient was cooled down to 22 C. On inspection of the left pleural cavity, we found two thick-walled aneurysms measuring 25 Â 30 and 30 Â 40 mm (wall thickness 2.0-2.5 mm). The proximal aneurysm was more anterior in relation to the distal, which was taking up the entirety of the left superior hemithorax. The descending aorta (diameter 7 mm) and proximal part of the right subclavian artery (4.5 mm) were mobilized at length. Perfusion flow was decreased to 50 mL/kg/min. Aortic arch was clamped distally to the right carotid artery. And descending aorta was clamped together with the aberrant right subclavian artery. The lumen of the proximal, then distal aneurysm was opened and their communication to each other by a 2.5-mm orifice was noted, as well as a 2-mm communication between the proximal aneurysm and the aortic arch and 2.5 mm distally with the descending aorta. Left subclavian artery origin was found in the posterolateral wall of the proximal aneurysm and measured 2.5 mm in diameter. Thick aneurysm walls were carefully resected, and left subclavian artery was ligated. Extended end-to-end anastomosis between the aortic arch and descending aorta was fashioned using a 12-mm longitudinal incision along the underside of the aortic arch and 7-mm incision along the posterior aspect of the descending aorta surface. During these manipulations, coronary perfusion and cardiac activity were preserved and hemodynamics were stable. Cardiopulmonary bypass time was 164 minutes and aortic arch cross-clamp time was 100 minutes. The patient was extubated at 36 hours postoperatively but developed a left pleural effusion requiring drainage on the sixth postoperative day. Arterial blood pressure was 96/60 mm Hg in the right arm, 75/55 mm Hg in the left arm, and 106/60 mm Hg in the leg. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a moderate dynamic left ventricular outflow tract obstruction with the peak systolic pressure gradient 50 mm Hg, and b-blocker therapy was restarted. The patient was discharged home on day 12 after surgery. At 12-month follow-up assessment, he was thriving . Computed tomography angiography with a threedimensional reconstruction showing the thoracic vessels' anatomy with moderate enlargement of ascending aorta, two saccular aneurysms of the arch, and left superior vena cava (arrow). A indicates saccular aneurysms; AA, ascending aorta; DA, descending aorta; *, left common carotid artery. and developing normally and receiving low-dose b-blocker therapy. Transthoracic echocardiography documented reduction in peak left ventricular outflow tract systolic pressure gradient documented to 23 mm Hg. Follow-up spiral CT demonstrated no recurrence of the aneurysm but moderate hypoplasia of the aortic arch persisted .
