We report the case of a 53-year old male patient with Klippel–Feil syndrome. No other manifestation of the syndrome other than the typical fusion of cervical vertebra and kyphoscoliosis has been found so far. Last year the patient had developed multiple ischaemic insults with the formation of an intracranial abscess and onset of epileptic seizures. In searching for a cause of paradoxical embolization, cardiac diagnostics were initialized. Echocardiography as well as left and right heart cardiac catheterization revealed severe right-to-left shunt caused by a persistent left superior caval drainage to the roof of the left atrium. An asymptomatic right aortic arch was also seen as an incidental finding. The brachiocephalic vein and right superior caval vein had almost normal diameters. We indicated operative ligation of the PLSVC because of symptomatic right-to-left shunting after the patient had recovered from ischaemic insult without residua. Despite severe malformations of the whole thorax, the thoracoscopic access was selected for the patient. Due to severe kyphoscoliosis, a short neck and anteflexion of the head, a trans-sternal approach would have been difficult, too . A left-minithoracotomy of 4 cm in 30° left-sided anteflexion was performed via the second intercostal space crossing the mid-clavicular line. After positioning of the thoracoscope under view, the PLSVC was identified extrapericardially and clamped. The right-to-left shunt, previously detected by transoesophageal echocardiography using echo contrast injection into the left basilic vein, was stopped immediately. Control of central venous pressure showed no change due to the existence of the brachiocephalic vein and a normal right superior vena cava. The consecutive ligation of the PLSVC was performed without the need of pericardiotomy or extracorporeal circulation (Video 1). The patient could be weaned from ventilation in the operating room (OR) and went home at Day 5 after an uneventful postoperative course.
