Case 1 A 58-year-old Chinese man came to our hospital because of recurred lasting chest pain at night for 3 days, which was continued about 1 h. The electrocardiogram (ECG) during episodes of chest pain showed ST segment elevation in leads V1–V5 (ECG not obtained). He had a history of smoking for 30 years. On admission, physical examination was unremarkable, except the blood pressure was 152/84 mmHg. ECG showed ST segment depression about 0.03 mV–0.05 mV in leads V5–V6 (ECG not obtained). The myocardial enzyme was normal, the level of troponin I (cTnI) was 0.1 ng/ml (reference, < 0.5 ng/ml), creatine kinaseMB (CK-MB) was 1.8 ng/ml (reference, < 5 ng/ml) and myohemoglobin was 18 ng/ml (reference, < 80 ng/ ml). Echocardiography and chest x-ray were normal. Coronary angiography (CAG) demonstrated there was a MB in the middle segment of the LAD . No stenosis of coronary artery was found.
A 51-year-old Chinese man with a six-month history of angina was admitted to our hospital because of a sudden chest pain lasting about 80 min which reflected to left upper limb and finger side accompanied by diaphoresis. ECG showed ST segment elevation in leads III and aVF ( showed in the Additional file 1). Cardiac biomarkers were elevated. The levels of cTnI, CK-MB and myohemoglobin were 6.0 ng/ml, 43.5 ng/ml and 148 ng/ ml respectively. CAG showed that a MB in the middle segment of the LAD . The patient suffered several episodes of chest pain in hospital. ECG showed ST segment elevation in inferior leads ( showed in the Additional file 1, ST segment elevation: lead III > lead II). After treatment with nitrates and diltiazem, the chest pain was relieved.
A 55-year-old Chinese woman was presented to our hospital because of sudden chest pain and shortness of breath for 3 h. She had a one-year history of hypertension. The levels of cTnI, CK-MB and myohemoglobin on admission were 0.5 ng/ml, 11.9 ng/ml and 217.3 ng/ml respectively. The ECG revealed faster atrial fibrillation with a ventricular rate of 110 beats/min and ST segment depression in leads V6 ( showed in the Additional file 1). Reexamination of cardiac biomarkers showed that cTnI, CK-MB and myohemoglobin were 5.8 ng/ml, 15 ng/ml and 25.6 ng/ml. CAG showed that a MB in the middle segment of the LAD .
A 55-year-old Chinese man was send to our hospital for lasting chest pain for 6 h and sudden cardiac arrest. His past medical history were remarkable for hypertension and diabetes for 3 years. He had a 30-years history of smoking. On admission, his blood pressure was 108/ 52 mmHg, respiratory rate was 30 breaths/min and his heart rate was 88 beats/min. The pupil diameter was 7 mm on both sides and the light pupillary reflex was disappeared. ECG showed that ST segment depression about 0.01 mV–0.02 mV in leads V4–V6 ( showed in the Additional file 1). The levels of cTnI, CKMB and myohemoglobin on admission were 0.1 ng/ml, 1.8 ng/ml and 125 ng/ml respectively. He suffered recurred cardiac arrest in hospital. CAG showed that a In case 1, coronary angiography with myocardial bridging (MB) of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) during diastole (a) and systole (b)MB in the middle segment of the LAD . He is doing well at 4 months of follow-up after cardiac arrest.
