Case 1 A 69-year-old woman was referred to our hospital for left orbital mass involving the upper and lower eyelids. Over the last few decades, she had received multiple interventions including sclerotherapy and surgical resection. However, the lesion remained and increased in size over the years, and she suffered from left mechanical ptosis, severe periorbital pain, and discomfort, resulting in psychological disturbance. Contract CT and MRI of the orbit showed a low flow infiltrative vascular lesion of both eyelids suggestive of a venous malformation. The operation was carried out in the EVOR. The lower lid venous malformation was managed by injecting sclerosant into the lesion guided by BDSAS. The upper lid lesion was excised through a transverse skin incision after glue embolization guided by the BDSAS. Multiple injection sites were needed because of the multiple loculations of the venous malformation. Histopathology confirmed a multi-loculated venous malformation. At 18 months' follow-up, the patient was seen to be experiencing no discomfort and no recurrence of ptosis. She was satisfied with the surgical outcome .Eye was associated with marked cosmetic blemish and mild discomfort. Her vision and ocular motility remained normal. A CT scan showed a vascular malformation extending from the left upper lid posteriorly to the trochlear region. Her symptoms gradually increased, and she underwent surgical excision of the venous lesions at the EVOR. Intraoperative direct puncture venogram and glue injection were performed by radiologists. This was followed by sub-brow skin incision over the lesion. With the aid of BDSAS-guided glue injection, the vascular lesion was subsequently excised as much as possible up to the trochlea region, preserving the superior oblique muscle tendon. Histology showed ectatic thin-walled vascular channels consistent with venous malformation. She was free of pain, and there was no evidence of recurrence at the recent follow-up after 10 months.
Case 3 A 38-year-old woman had a left upper lid vascular lesion since the age of 24 years. She had received incomplete surgical excision of the lesion 10 years ago in China, which was histologically revealed to be dysplastic venous channels. Subsequently she was noted to have progressive proptosis, ocular dysmotility, and compressive optic neuropathy. MRI of her orbit showed a contrast-enhancing extraconal mass at the antero-medial aspect of her left globe. It displaced the left medial rectus muscle and the globe laterally. She received sclerosant injection to her left orbital venous malformation, but the clinical response was transient. In view of the progressive deterioration in visual function, repeated excision was carried out in the EVOR. BDSAS-guided glue injection was performed before panorbitotomy, combining lateral canthotomy and inferior cantholysis, removal and subsequent replacement of the lateral orbital rim, transconjunctival and trancaruncular incision, and vertical eyelid splitting. The solidified part of the vascular lesion was excised with a clear delineated dissection plane; yet the deeper part of the lesion did not take up sufficient glue with the superficial puncture and glue injection. In view of the extensive lesion size, a repeated venogram with additional glue injection under BDSAS guidance was supplemented . CompleteEye excision was achieved, and the follow-up orbital CT performed 18 months after excision did not reveal any recurrence. Despite the poor left visual acuity as the consequence of prolonged optic nerve compression and established optic atrophy, her vision improved from hand movement to 6/60 after operation. There was mild limitation in left eye abduction but the patient has no diplopia, and there was no clinical recurrence with satisfactory cosmetic outcome.
Case 4 A 22-year-old man had a left conjunctival vascular lesion since 10 years of age. He noted that the mass was gradually increasing in size and causing significant cosmetic disfigurement. On MRI of the orbit, a multi-loculated intraconal lesion was noted at the inferomedial aspect of the left orbit. The lesion extended anteriorly to the preseptal space involving the inferior eyelid and posteriorly to the intraconal orbital space with features suggestive of a slow-flow orbital venous malformation. The lesion was managed in the EVOR collaboratively by radiologists, vascular surgeons, and ophthalmologists. Contrast injection followed by glue injection under BDSAS guidance was performed through insertion of the catheter to the inferior lid lesion. The glued venous malformation together with the feeder vessels was excised through a transconjunctival approach. The lesion was noted to have infiltrated the inferior rectus muscle, and the latter was preserved. A small portion of the most posterior intraconal component was left in view of surgical risk outweighing the benefits. Histopathology showed dysplastic venous channels with lymphatic components. There was no clinical recurrence noted 2 years after the operation despite a small residual intraconal venous malformation on follow-up MRI. His visual acuity remained good with no ocular dysmotility and disfigurement.
Case 5 A 35-year-old man presented with an intermittent left upper lid mass since 6 months. The mass increased in size after valsalva maneuver and caused mechanical ptosis and periocular discomfort, but there was no proptosis or ocular dysmotility. He had a ruptured left eyeball repaired over 10 years ago, with subsequent poor visual acuity. Because of the cosmetic disfigurement and discomfort, surgical resection at the EVOR was performed. Dynamic contrast CT of the orbit showed a lobulated nodular lesion in the pre-septal compartment of the left orbit enlarging on prone valsalva maneuver. The operation was carried out in the EVOR. Superficial dissection was performed through a lid crease incision until the vascular malformation was exposed. This was followed by a direct puncture venogram, followed by contrast and glue injection into the lesion under BDSAS surveillance to avoid spillage from the superior ophthalmic vein to the cavernous sinus . After embolization, the lesion was removed completely en bloc. Histopathology of the specimen showed dilated vascular channels compatible with venous malformation. The patient remained asymptomatic with no recurrence at follow-up 2 years later.
