A 1-month-old male infant presented with repeated episodes of cyanosis and a history of noisy breathing since birth. A physical examination revealed marked subcostal retractions with wheezing. The MDCT showed a DAA with mirror-image branching that formed a complete vascular ring around the distal trachea just above the carina. A short segment of tracheal narrowing was present 1 cm above the carina . The DAA was released by dividing the left aortic arch. A ductal ligament was also divided. After the surgery, the infant continued to exhibit wheezing. Fourteen days after the operation, the MDCT showed a persistent tracheal narrowing at the level of the remaining arch . After discharge, the patient's wheezing gradually improved; and five months after the surgery, the MDCT showed an improvement in the tracheal narrowing . However, 10 months after the operation, stridor recurred and the MDCT showed tracheal compression by the remaining right aortic arch . The area involved with tracheal compression at this time differed from the previous region of tracheal narrowing. We therefore performed anterior aortopexy through a median sternotomy. The postoperative period was uneventful, allowing for extubation on day 1 and discharge on day 14. The patient has remained in excellent clinical condition, and subsequent computed tomography (CT) imaging at 2 years of age showed an improvement in the tracheal narrowing .
A one-month-old male infant presented with a history of noisy breathing since birth. A physical examination revealed marked subcostal retractions with wheezing. The MDCT showed a DAA with a remnant of the left aortic arch that formed a complete vascular ring around the distal trachea. A short segment of tracheal narrowing was present . The DAA was released by dividing the remnant of the left aortic arch. A ductal ligament was also divided. After the surgery, the infant continued to wheeze. Eighteen days after the operation, the MDCT imaging showed a persistent short segment of tracheal narrowing at the level of the remaining arch . The wheezing gradually improved, and five months after the operation the follow-up MDCT showed an improvement in the tracheal narrowing .
