A term newborn was postnatally diagnosed with D-TGA IVS based on central cyanosis with minimal respiratory distress early after birth and a pre-and postductal hemoglobin saturationof 25%. The patient's clinical condition worsened, with persistent hypoxemia and progressive hemodynamic deterioration despite early infusion of prostaglandin E 1 , percutaneous atrial septostomy, and appropriate pharmacologic therapy including inhaled nitric oxide (iNO), inotropics, and vasoactive support. Echocardiography showed pulmonary-tosystemic shunt through a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and increasing ventricular dysfunction. Chest X-ray showed pulmonary oligemia. Owing to severe persistent hypoxemia (PaO 2 < 30 mm Hg) and progressive signs of end-organ deterioration (lactate > 3 mmol/L, decreased urine output, and regional brain oxygen saturation <20%), support with vv-ECMO was initiated on the second day of life (36 hours) after insertion of a 12F double-lumen cannula through the right jugular vein. Echographic signs of PPHN improved shortly after initiation of ECMO. Persistent systemic-to-pulmonary shunt through a PDA was observed on the second day of extracorporeal support, leading to an increased pulmonary flow. Prostaglandin infusion was stopped to avoid pulmonary congestion. The subsequent decline in PDA size was accompanied by a decrease in the dimensions of the morphologically left ventricle (estimated using echography) that started on the fourth day of ECMO. Prostaglandin infusion was restarted again and titrated to maintain the ductus arteriosus patent in order to further assess pulmonary pressures without deconditioning the left ventricle. An arterial switch operation was successfully performed after four days of vv-ECMO support on the seventh day of life. Bullous lung parenchyma was observed during surgery. A perioperative lung sample was obtained for biopsy . The patient required va-ECMO support after the procedure due to persistent hypoxia. Inodilator treatment with levosimendan and milrinone and pulmonary vasodilation with iNO were initiated. The patient was successfully decannulated on postoperative day 3. The lung biopsy revealed signs of pulmonary interstitial glycogenosis, a finding that was consistent with reversible pulmonary hypertension . Pulmonary vasodilators (iloprost and sildenafil) and intravenous corticosteroids were administered, and treatment with iNO was stopped. The patient's condition improved rapidly. He was successfully extubated on postoperative day 7 and discharged home on day 61 of life, 54 days after the arterial switch operation.
