palpitations and lightheadedness for 2 hours at his workplace. There was no dyspnea, orthopnea, sweating, nausea/vomiting or loss of consciousness at the time of presentation. On closer questioning the patient reported experiencing exertional chest discomfort in the form of chest tightness over the precordial area for the past several years. On occasion, he also had nausea coincident with the pain, but he had not sought medical attention earlier. On examination, he had a regular pulse rate of 78/min, blood pressure of 130/70 mmHg, and normal jugular venous pressure. Cardiac auscultation revealed a regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs, rubs or gallops. Electrocardiogram (EKG) at the time of admission showed sinus rhythm with left axis deviation, left anterior fascicular block and incomplete right bundle branch pattern. However, a comparison could not be made in absence of any prior EKGs. Acute coronary syndrome was ruled out with three sets of negative cardiac enzymes. The patient lacked any cardiac risk factors, but given the duration and persistence of symptoms, further work up was warranted and the decision to do a stress echocardiogram was made. During the stress test, heart rate climbed to 120/ min following 7 minutes of exercise. The patient suddenly developed monomorphic ventricular tachycardia,which lasted approximately 8 seconds and resolved spontaneously with termination of exercise. During this episode, the patient developed shortness of breath and palpitations/lightheadedness; however, he did not have a full syncopal episode and he was positioned horizontally. His immediate blood pressure was documented as 120/60 mm Hg. During exercise, he had an adequate heart rate and blood pressure response. This prompted cardiac catheterization  revealing a large fistula from the left anterior descending (LAD) artery to the pulmonary artery, which was subsequently delineated by CT angiogram of the coronaries ( – the arrows point to the fistula). The coronary fistula was presumed congenital in etiology. Cardiac MRI (done to rule out any other pathologies) failed to reveal any scar or asymmetric hypertrophy, which could explain the ventricular tachycardia. Biochemical and hematological investigations including cardiac biomarkers were normal. Combination of presentation with the cardiac catheterisation findings helped us establish a cause–effect relationship between the coronary fistula, ischemic symptoms and ventricular tachycardia. We concluded that exercise led to a ' coronary artery steal phenomenon' caused by the coronary fistula, which diverted the blood from the LAD to the pulmonary artery thereby producing the ischemic symptoms and ventricular tachycardia. Transcatheter coil embolization was attempted but was unsuccessful. The fistula was eventually closed surgically. The patient did well post-operatively and was symptom free. A repeat stress echocardiogram done prior to discharge was completely normal. The patient is being followed up in the outpatient cardiology clinic every three months, and was doing well without recurrence of symptoms.
