A 10-year-old girl (at the time of first presentation) presented with marked exercise intolerance and palpitations and was diagnosed to have large PDA. She had feeding difficulty, diaphoresis, failure to gain weight, recurrent chest infections during infancy and early childhood. She had no previous hospital admissions or documented episode of infective endocarditis and was not on any cardiac medication. On physical examination, her weight was 25 kg, and height was 132 cm. Her blood pressure was 125/55 mmHg. She had no pallor or cyanosis. Her peripheral pulses were bounding. Her precordium was active with the point of maximum intensity shifted downwards and laterally. She had thrill over the left second intercostal space. Auscultation revealed accentuated P 2 , continuous murmur over the left 2nd intercostal space and loud diastolic rumble at the mitral area. There was no organomegaly or peripheral edema. Chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly with pulmonary plethora. Electrocardiogram showed left atrial and left ventricular enlargement. On Echocardiography there was a dilated left atrium, left ventricle and pulmonary artery. There was a large window-type PDA measuring about 11–12 mm in diameter , with left to right shunt atPage 3 of 5 8:511 peak systolic velocity of 3.3 m/s. Left ventricular systolic function was normal with an ejection fraction of 61 % and fiber shortening fraction of 32 %. There was minimal mitral regurgitation. One year after diagnosis, an attempt of percutaneous closure of the PDA was not successful because no suitable size device was available to occlude the expansile duct. Her pulmonary artery pressure was 34/21 mmHg (mean 27 mmHg). She then underwent ductal ligation through a left postero-lateral thoracotomy (mini-thoracotomy) at the local hospital. However, a control echocardiogram done on the third postoperative day showed that the left pulmonary artery instead of the duct was ligated. Consensus was made that removal of the ligature should be done under cardiopulmonary bypass. However, because of lack of facilities and proper cardiac surgical team, it was not possible to do the proposed procedure. So it was decided that she should be on follow up with anticipation of surgical repair during an overseas cardiac surgery missions. The girl was then lost to follow-up, apparently because of clinical improvement of her symptoms. After 3 years, the girl was traced. She then underwent diagnostic angiogram, which confirmed ligation of the LPA with faint filling of the distal vessel . Pulmonary artery pressure was 75/49 mmHg (mean 63 mmHg) while aortic pressure was 112/50 mmHg (mean 86 mmHg). During an overseas surgical mission, she subsequently underwent LPA reconstruction and PDA division via median sternotomy and on cardiopulmonary bypass. The LPA had been ligated just proximal to the lobar branching and a small, 3 mm distal orifice was found free from thrombus and with backflow of blood. During removal of the ligature, the fragile LPA wall disintegrated and was reconstructed with difficulty using autologous pericardium. Postoperative recovery was uneventful and she was extubated few hours after transfer to the intensive care unit. Follow-up echocardiogram 3 months later showed significant increment in blood flow through the LPA albeit with residual stenosis. This was confirmed on pulmonary angiogram . Eighteen months after the surgical reconstruction of the left pulmonary artery, the patient was taken to the catheterization laboratory for a planned percutaneous stenting of the left pulmonary artery. Under general anesthesia, a right femoral vein access was established with an 8F introducer sheath. Intravenous heparin was given at a dose of 100 IU per kilogram of body weight. A 5F Occlu Marker pigtail catheter (pfm medical ag, Wankelstraße 60, Köln, Germany) was advanced over a guide wire and placed in the left pulmonary artery. Angiography was done in straight left lateral projection. There was severe stenosis of the LPA with the stenotic segment measuring 4 mm in diameter and 15 mm in length. An Amplatz superstiff .035″ × 260 cm (AGA Medical, Golden Valley, MN, USA) was advanced deep in the distal LPA. Premounted Valeo ® Vascular Stent (C.R. BARD, INC. (GFO) 289 bay road, Queensbury NY, USA), 26 mm in length, crimped over a 10 mm balloon (EV10261C deploymentsystem) was placed across the stenotic segment. The stent was then dilated up to a pressure of 13 bars using a pressure syringe ( –c). Check angiogram showed stable position of the stent. Angiographic comparison of the stenotic segment before and after stenting is shown in . The final diameter of the stent was 10.3 mm. Fluoroscopy time was 8.1 min. There was no any complication during or after the procedure.
