History The patient was born full term weighing approximately 7 pounds, and no complications with the pregnancy or birth were reported. Developmental milestones generally were reached within age-typical expectations, and the patient initially demonstrated adequate academic development during her early preschool years. The parents began to notice gradual increasing difficulty with aspects of early learning between ages 4 and 5 years. The patient received early intervention services in the school setting before being diagnosed with VGAM. Early medical history was significant for mild reactive airway disease, which was well controlled with occasional inhaler therapy.
In the current case, the patient presented with progressive cognitive changes between ages 4 and 5 years. A recent history of learning differences was also reported, and the patient received early intervention services in the school environment, which were initiated before diagnosis and treatment of the VGAM. These services continued during subsequent school years. No other neurological complaints were reported, and the patient was asymptomatic otherwise. Neuroimaging revealed evidence of a VGAM, with widespread calcifications in the frontal and temporoparietal regions, primarily in the subcortical white matter. The patient underwent a comprehensive neuropsychological evaluation before any neurosurgical intervention at age 5.5 years. Findings indicated overall intellectual functioning in the extremely low range; however, the patient performed better on measures of verbal reasoning than on those of nonverbal reasoning. Additional areas of weakness included visual-spatial processing, fine motor output, emerging executive functions, and comprehension. No stimulant medication was given. The patient underwent an updated comprehensive evaluation approximately 18 months after her most recent embolization procedure at age 11.1 years. Updated results continued to demonstrate a similar pattern of strengths and weaknesses, although the patient exhibited notable improvement in a variety of cognitive domains compared with age-matched norms. Improvements in neurocognitive functioning may be attributable to multiple factors. First, the patient continued to develop, mature, and be exposed to academic instruction over the 6 years between pre-and posttreatment evaluations. Hence, some improvements may be attributed to typical maturational processes associated with childhood. Second, the embolization procedures have improved cerebral blood flow and relieved venous hypertension, which may contribute to improved neuronal function in various parts of the brain. Although it is likely that extensive subcortical calcifications are radiographic markers of cognitive impairment, a direct causation and radiographic-clinical correlation has yet to be established definitively. It has been reported that the presence of subcortical calcifications is a marker of severe and potentially irreversible cognitive impairment. 6,16–18 Less is known about the impact of embolization procedures on improving the cognitive functioning in these individuals. Despite notable areas of neurocognitive weakness before the initiation of treatment, the patient in this case report has continued to make gains in her development compared with peers of the same age. Results continued to suggest greater right hemisphere and frontal lobe disruption compared with largely preserved left hemisphere functioning. Nevertheless, improvements were seen on tasks across domains, including measures of language processing, visual-spatial processing, memory, and attention. We speculate that improvements may be associated, to a certain extent, with the embolization procedures. Without treatment, it is possible that further cognitive deterioration would have continued.
