A 68-year-old male was admitted because of chest pain and dyspnea (NYHA class IV). He was obese and with a past medical history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking and cerebral ischemic event. Physical examination was unremarkable. Electrocardiography showed a normal sinus rhythm, Q waves in the anterior leads (suggesting anterior myocardial infarction). Trans-thoracic echocardiography showed hypokinesia of the anterior wall, but the overall systolic function of the left ventricle is preserved (EF = 55%). Coronary angiogram revealed significant stenosis on the left descending coronary artery (LAD), while the left circumflex artery (LCX) and the right coronary artery (RCA) were not significantly diseased. Moreover, there was a small fistula connection arising from the LAD, just before a proximal stenosis, and draining into the main pulmonary artery . Scrupulous preoperative diagnostic tests allowed determining that the CAF was not hemodynamically relevant. After the coronary angiography (which allowed to find out the CAF) the patient underwent cardiac catheterization to assess whether the CAF created or not a significant leftto-right shunt. The exam showed a small left-to-right shunt, normal pulmonary resistance and normal pulmonary to systemic ratio (Qp/Qs). Furthermore, a trans esophageal echocardiography (TEE) was performed to better estimate the fistula. No unexpected or unusual structure was observed. The exam did not revealed any enlarged coronary artery and the right cardiac chambers were not dilated. The results of all these tests have established that the fistula had small caliber and was not significant from the hemodynamic point of view. Consequently, further additional studies did not seem useful. In consideration of the preoperative studies, which revealed that the fistula was not relevant, the cardiac surgeon decided not to treat it. Thereafter, the surgical team, in agreement with the patient, chose a type of minimally invasive surgical approach. The patient underwent conventional off pump CABG x 1 (Left internal thoracic artery to LAD) in left mini-thoracotomy. Because of its small size and the particular origin-site of the CAF, before a significant proximally stenosis of the LAD, it was not considered necessary to close it. Transit time flowmetry of LIMA-LAD graft was 45 ml/min, with IP: 1.0. The intra and post-operative course was smooth. Patient was discharged home on the 5 th post-operative day. At six month follow-up, the patient was asymptomatic and in stable condition, and the ergometric test was negative for myocardial ischemia.
