The patient initially presented with low TREC levels on newborn screen, concerning for severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). He was found to have a solitary right kidney, a ventricular septal defect and hypocalcemia. Genetic testing confirmed a 22q11.2 chromosomal deletion and absent T cells (CD3<1 %), consistent with cDGS. He was placed on Pneumocystis jirovecii prophylaxis and parenteral immunoglobulin therapy in preparation for thymic transplant. At 13 months of age, prior to thymic transplantation, he presented with 10 days of persistent fever and cough despite oral azithromycin prescribed by his pediatrician. Physical exam revealed a cough but no respiratory distress, hypoxemia or focal lung findings. A chest x-ray showed a right upper lobe lung infiltrate. He was started on ceftriaxone upon admission. A bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed showing 180,000 copies of Pneumocystis jirovecii via PCR, and evidence of chronic aspiration (lipid-laden macrophages). He had a history of poor compliance with trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole prophylaxis, and was started on treatment dosing. Clindamycin was added for anaerobic bacterial coverage. All other infectious studies from the BAL were negative. This included viral respiratory PCR panel; Epstein-Barr virus, Cytomegalovirus, and Human herpes virus-6 PCRs; aerobic bacterial, mycobacterial, and fungal cultures; Mycobacterium tuberculosis PCR; Mycoplasma pneumoniae PCR; Bordatella pertussis PCR; Aspergillus antigen; and Legionella culture. Despite treatment, he continued to have daily fevers> 39 °C for 5 days. A CT of his chest and abdomen revealed diffuse lytic bone lesions and large necrotic lymph nodes in the mediastinum . Videoassisted thorascopic mediastinal biopsy showed numerous acid-fast bacilli . He was started on clarithromycin 7.5 mg/kg/dose BID, ethambutol 150 mg QDay (approximately 18 mg/kg), rifabutin 150 mg Qday (approximately 17 mg/kg), and amikacin 25 mg/kg/dose TIW for suspected mycobacterial infection with gradual clinical improvement. The culture from his biopsy eventually grew Mycobacterium kansasii.
