" The doctors have done me wrong. They should have allowed this child to die. " These are the words of the mother of 9-month-old Baby K—a child with Down syndrome and complete atrioventricular (AV) canal defect—to the pediatric heart surgeon (FE) to whom her baby had been referred. Baby K was born in a teaching hospital in Accra, Ghana, with Down syndrome and was in severe cardiorespiratory distress at birth. He was resuscitated with significant improvement and discharged home after spending a few weeks in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) fi ghting neonatal sepsis. Upon full cardiological evaluation when the child was 11 months old, a complete AV canal defect was detected, necessitating referral to a pediatric cardiac surgeon for possible surgical repair. Successful surgery would normalize the pulmonary blood fl ow, eliminate the risk of recurrent chest infections, and prevent hypertensive pulmonary vascular disease. However, the operation in most cases is not curative, as there is signifi cant ongoing risk of the need for reoperation due to failed valve repair. With successful surgery, the child was expected to physically thrive albeit with signifi cant neurodevelopmental, cognitive, and psychosocialCASE STUDY challenges as a result of the Down syndrome. The risk of chest infections would be similar to that of the age-adjusted general population, and the cardiac function would improve. Without the surgery, the child would have a poor quality of life, with repeated chest infections and hospitalizations; he would fail to thrive and would have a poor outlook for long-term survival. A bioethicist (AKE) was consulted by the pediatric heart surgeon because of the mother's feeling of being wronged by the doctors who had resuscitated her son at birth, and her unwillingness to spend any further resources on Baby K. The mother had observed that the child was dysmorphic (upslanting palpebral fi ssures, fl oppy as though " having no bones in him, " abnormal-looking ears, and epicanthic folds). She commented that compared to her previous three children, this child had a poor ability to control and direct his attention to visual stimuli, and also had poor motor and verbal development compared to that expected of a child 11 months of age. As the ethics consultation took place, it became clear that the mother's position was that her son, born with Down syndrome and in severe cardiorespiratory distress at birth, ought not to have been resuscitated but left to die. The doctors, however, saw no reason not to perform the resuscitation. Baby K's mother insisted that surgery for the AV canal defect was not worthwhile on the grounds that her son, clearly a case of severely impaired Down syndrome, had no expectation of a reasonable quality of life. On further questioning, she expressed her decision to decline surgery for multiple reasons: First, she believed that as a child with Down syndrome, Baby K was seriously mentally challenged and therefore not considered of much value to her or to society as a whole. Second, Baby K had a serious congenital heart malformation requiring enormous fi nancial resources to treat, resources that the mother explained she did not have. This being her fourth child, she was concerned about the potential fi nancial implications of diverting meager resources to the care of a child considered to have no reasonable quality of life in the future. Third, the mother was concerned that the child's disability would continue to keep her from work, with adverse fi nancial repercussions for her family. Ultimately, she asserted that the doctors had erred in resuscitating Baby K at birth, and by their decision had brought grave fi nancial and emotional trouble upon her whole family. The reason the mother felt that the doctors had wronged her by resuscitating her son was not her poverty, but the fact that the child had Down syndrome. In her view, the life of such a child was not worth living. Her posture in the care of Baby K was thus passive, even to the point of wishing death for him.
