A 33-year-old man with a past medical history of Noonan syndrome complicated by pulmonic stenosis with congestive heart failure and profound brawny edema of the abdomen and lower extremities presented to the hospital with intractable bleeding from innumerable cutaneous lymphatic malformations of the scrotum, groin, and perirectal region . He first developed these cutaneous lymphatic malformations approximately two years prior as a complication of his Noonan syndrome and chronic lymphedema, and the lesions progressed. For 1.5 years, he had chronic intermittent bleeding from these lesions requiring frequent blood transfusions when his hemoglobin would decrease to 5–6 g/dl from his usual baseline hemoglobin of 8 g/dl. He required hospitalizations almost monthly for complications associated with bleeding and super-infection of his cutaneous lesions. His severe anemia from these bleeding lymphatic malformations significantly compromised his already tenuous cardiopulmonary function, resulting in multiple extended admissions to the medical and cardiac intensive care units. His lesions were also associated with significant pain requiring highdose narcotics that further compromised his respiratory function. His cutaneous lymphatic malformations were previously treated with a variety of topical therapies, including Monsel's solution (basic ferric sulfate), aluminum chloride, silver nitrate, surgical hemostatic polymer, heat stick, electrocautery, extensive curettage and cauterization, and scar induction with electrocoagulation, all with little-to-no reduction in his bleeding. Because of his refractory, ongoing blood loss from these lesions, his case was presented at Dermatology Grand Rounds to solicit additional treatment options. Timolol and rapamycin were considered but not ultimately employed. Ablative CO 2 laser therapy was limited by the patient's MRSA carriage, colonization, and superficial skin infections requiring contact isolation. During one of his admissions for bleeding, radiation was considered as a local treatment option to reduce his bleeding. After consulting with the primary care team and the medical dermatologists, the patient decided to proceed with radiation treatments. He was treated to a dose of 20 Gy in 2 Gy fractions treating once daily over a two-week period. For the lesions on the upper abdomen, he was treated with 6 MV photons using volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT), a form of intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) that delivered a homogeneous, conformal dose to the skin lesions while minimizing dose to the underlying normal tissues. The cutaneous lesions on the scrotum, perineum, and perirectal regions were encompassed within a field covered by opposing anterior and posterior portals. More superiorly in the pelvis, the lesions on the anterior skin were treated with opposing lateral beams using half-beam blocking to minimize divergence of the beams into the underlying tissues while the lesions on the posterior pelvic skin were treated with a similar beam arrangement using opposed lateral portals. This beam configuration minimized radiation dose to the inner pelvis. Custom bolus was used to ensure adequate dose build-up to the cutaneous lesions. Treatment was designed to deliver the prescribed dose to a depth of 2 cm below the skin surface. His radiation treatment plan is shown in (A) Innumerable lymphatic malformations of the scrotal, perineal, perirectal, pelvic, and lower abdomen, as they appeared just prior to the start of radiation treatment. (B) Appearance 10 months following completion of radiation therapy. The size of the lesions and the degree of bleeding was significantly improved. A written permission from the patient is given to publish these photos. but his radiation treatments were aborted after only 10 fractions because of an episode of cardiopulmonary compromise that prevented him from lying flat on the treatment table for his subsequent radiation treatments. The radiation therapy was not thought to have contributed to the cardiopulmonary compromise. Because of the large treatment volume, he was treated with a conventional fractionation regimen of 2 Gy per fraction to minimize the risk of radiation-related complications rather than being treated with a hypofractionated radiation regimen using larger doses per fraction. After completing radiation, the patient experienced a significant, durable improvement in his bleeding as well as dramatic shrinkage in the size of his lesions . He reported a 7-month interval following radiation during which he did not require any blood transfusions, a marked contrast to his monthly transfusion requirement prior to radiation therapy. The pain associated with his lesions also improved following radiation.
