A 58-year-old woman was referred to our hospital because of complaints of chest pain and dyspnoea, mainly on exertion. The symptoms started at age 18, when she developed progressive dyspnoea and stabbing chest pain located at the cardiac apex, which relieved itself at rest. When she was 35 years old, a PDA was identified with no other cardiac anomaly present. Subsequently, the PDA was surgically ligated through the left chest. The patient led a normal life for 15 years, at which point she started to complain of chest pain and dyspnoea again. There was no significant history of psychological stress. Blood pressure was 104/44 mmHg. An electrocardiograph (ECG) on admission showed a q-wave in lead I, a Q-wave in lead aVL, and an abnormal T-wave in the limb leads and leads V4 to V6 . A chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with increased pulmonary vascularity. A transthoracic echocardiograph revealed a suspicious coarctation of the aorta, a PDA with moderate shunt and a contractile protrusion arising from the apex of the left ventricle ( to d). The maximum internal end-diastolic diameters of the muscular protrusion were 2.0 cm × 1.5 cm, and the protrusion beat simultaneously with the enlarged left ventricle with normal ventricular function (ejection fraction 66 %) and wall motion. The pulmonary artery systolic pressure was 41 mmHg estimated by echocardiograph through tricuspid regurgitation velocity. The diagnosis on admission was coronary artery disease with infarct aneurysm, recurrent PDA after surgical ligation and suspicious coarctation of the aorta. Further evaluations were performed because of suspicions about the true coarctation of the aorta and coronary artery disease with infarct aneurysm. Cardiac enzyme values were within normal limits. A Holter ECG revealed a normal ST-segment at the onset of symptoms, as it appeared in the routine ECG . Helical computed tomography (CT) confirmed the findings by echocardiographic examination. No collateral circulation was detected around the aortic narrowing, and poststenotic dilatation was observed ( to d). Coronary angiography showed no abnormal findings ( and b). Left ventriculography confirmed the presence of an apical contractile out-pouching which was connected directly to the left ventricular cavity by a narrow mouth, and no aneurysmal motion was found ( and d). Retrograde cardiac catheterization through the aortic narrowing demonstrated no pressure gradient. Based on these findings, we revised the diagnosis as LD associated with recurrent PDA after surgical ligation. The patient underwent transcatheter occlusion, and a 10/8 mm PDA occluder (Starway Medical Technology, Beijing, China) was implanted. An aortic angiogram examination confirmed its proper position and complete closure of the PDA . After the release of the device, the patient showed significant improvement in symptoms and was discharged 3 days later. At a 12month follow-up, she was symptom-free. Muscular LD is generally regarded as a functional accessory chamber. Surgical resection may impair partial ventricular function, and this type of diverticulum is less likely to rupture than the fibrous type. Conservative treatment and anticoagulant are recommended. Therefore, a nonsurgical strategy with careful follow-up was performed in this case.
