A previously healthy 8-year-old Asian male presented to our institution after a near-syncopal event while playing soccer. After arrival at the hospital, the patient had frequent runs of nonsustained, hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia despite multiple lidocaine boluses and an amiodarone infusion. Given the incessant ventricular tachycardia andReprints and permission: sagepub.com/journalsPermissions.nav DOI: 10.1177/2150135114558689 pch.sagepub.com non-reassuring clinical examination, he was emergently intubated and cannulated onto venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA-ECMO) with a presumed diagnosis of acute myocarditis. Initial echocardiogram (Phillips iE33, Phillips Medical Systems, Bothell, Washington) while supported on VA-ECMO had limited acoustic windows and revealed only a mildly dilated left atrium and left ventricle with estimated left ventricular ejection fraction of <40% and no obvious regional wall motion abnormalities. A 12-lead electrocardiogram (Philips PageWriter TC70 Cardiograph, Philips Medical Systems, Andover, Massachusetts) revealed qwaves in leads I and aVL with ST-segment depression in the inferior leads. Although suspicion for a coronary abnormality was high, the coronary arteries were imaged by transthoracic echocardiogram and two-dimensional imaging appeared falsely reassuring with the appearance of a normal left coronary artery arising from the appropriate sinus . Thus, no immediate further diagnostic studies were pursued. The patient's ventricular function recovered rapidly, and he was decannulated after one week on mechanical support. Once off mechanical support, detailed transthoracic imaging with color and spectral Doppler interrogation was performed and demonstrated the anomalous origin of the left coronary artery off the right sinus of Valsalva (Video Clip 1). Spectral Doppler revealed high-velocity flow in diastole from the right sinus of Valsalva seen best in the parasternal short-axis view . CT angiogram to further define coronary anatomy confirmed the anomalous left coronary artery from the right coronary cusp with an interarterial component measuring 11 mm . Steady state free precession MRI views, performed to evaluate for myocardial hypoperfusion, demonstrated regional wall motion abnormalities of the left ventricle and corresponding endocardial enhancement by gadolinium-enhanced sequence in the distribution of a left main coronary artery lesion in a right-dominant system; overall, left ventricular ejection fraction by MRI was 44% ( and Video Clip 2). Intraoperatively, the left main coronary artery was seen arising off the right cusp near the left–right commissure. By direct inspection, the left coronary was noted to have a high takeoff with a 11-mm interarterial course and 7-mm proximal intramural component. The patient underwent surgical repair consisting of unroofing of the anomalous left coronary artery to address the intramural component, and pulmonary arteriopexy
