Our consultand is of Zimbabwean, South African, and European descent and was in her late 40s at the time of testing. She was introduced to the idea of direct access genetic testing through a marketing presentation made to a leadership organization of which she was a member. She was in good health when she pursued the testing, and said that her objective was to gain more information on her own future health risks, in addition to those of her children. Specifically, she was concerned about her own risk for Alzheimer disease and breast cancer, due to a family history of these diseases in two of her grandparents. In this context, then, variants predicted to confer risk for these two diseases could arguably be considered Bprimary^ findings. Similarly, variants predicted to confer risk for other diseases could arguably be considered Bsecondary^ findings. Some of her other family members also took up direct access genetic testing, including her husband, her two daughters, and her father-in-law. She did not consult with a health professional prior to the testing (Supplemental Materials S1). Subsequent review of her family history revealed that the onset and course of these illnesses was typical of Bpolygenic-multifactorial^ disease, i.e. not sufficiently early or atypical as to expect a strong risk of identifying one or more rare DNA variants of large effect on risk. Whole genome SNV analysis was completed through a genetic 'Wellness and Longevity Panel' run on a proprietary Nexus DNA Chip and described by the company as BFull Genome Analysis.^ Worthy of note is that the genetic testing laboratory was also reported to be CLIA-certified. The report issued by the company to the consultand in November of 2011 described 895 SNVs and 10 haplotypes associated with 1217 syndromes, diseases and traits. The report also stated that a p.R243C mutation in KCNQ1 had been identified, which carried an increased risk for LQTS (as reported in 15 published studies referenced in the report). The result was presented with the explicit recommendation for her to have a comprehensive workup for LQTS, and to have her medications reviewed to ensure that none of them had negative side effects when combined with LQTS. The report also stated that she was at an increased risk for heart attack (either coronary artery disease or myocardial infarction), predicting a 61 % chance compared to the general population risk of 25 %.
