A 35 years old woman was referred for ultrasound examination at 21st week of her third pregnancy with suspected fetal anomaly. She had two uneventful pregnancies in the past, both of which ended with caesarean section delivery due to failure to progress in second stage. The second pregnancy was complicated with uterine scar dehiscence. On level one ultrasound examination, fetal abdominal wall defect was suspected. The course of pregnancy was uneventful with no history of teratogenic exposure. On ultrasound examination in our centre CONTACT Vedran Madžarac vmadarac@gmail.com University Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital Merkur, Zagreb , Croatia. Color versions of one or more of the figures in the article can be found online at www.tandfonline.com/ipdp.(level three), single live fetus was found. Biometry measurements were consistent with gestational age. Abdominal wall defect was confirmed in the form of supraumbilical omphalocele, containing the liver and bowel loops with fetal right kidney present in front of the ventral wall. Midline defect in lower chest with evisceration of heart was also found with no obvious cardiac abnormalities . The diagnosis of PC was made and normal male karyotype (46,XY) was confirmed by amniocentesis. After counselling, parents opted for termination of pregnancy. This was performed by local application of prostaglandins. Post mortem examination of 430 g male fetus confirmed ultrasound findings . A large omphalocele was found with liver, intestines, right kidney and right adrenal as well as right testis and a fundus of urinary bladder protruding outside the ventral wall defect . A perimembranous ventricular septal defect (VSD) was detected, being missed by ultrasound examination. Absence of a pericardium and a ventral part of diaphragm was also recognised. The kidneys were normally formed. There were no signs of dysplasia. The collecting system was not obstructed. Both kidneys and adrenals were similar in size and volume. There were no discrepancies in size or volumes of the left and right kidneys or adrenals. Kidneys measured 19 mm × 15 mm × 10 mm (right) and 18 mm × 15 mm × 10 mm (left), while adrenal glands measured 21 mm × 13 mm × 4 mm (right) and 22 mm × 15 mm × 5 mm (left). Morphological analysis showed similar stage of nephrogenic differentiation. Differentiation between cortex and medulla was well marked. The nephrogenic zone was not as thick as in the earlier gestation stages. The cortex appeared more mature with increased thickness. The increased number of mature glomeruli was obtained, present in the deeper part of the cortex. A few developing glomeruli were seen in superficial part of the cortex. Increased number of proximal and distal convoluted tubules was found in the deeper part of cortex. Proximal convoluted tubules were comprised of cells with large eosinophilic cytoplasm with brush border and rounded nuclei, while distal convoluted tubules were wider in diameter, lined by simple cuboidal cells with pale eosinophilic cytoplasm and rounded nuclei. Fetal zone of adrenal glands cortex was formed by bulky polygonal cells with abundant eosinophilic cytomplasm that occupied about 80% of the adrenal cortex. Morphological features corresponded with gestation age.
