A 9-year-old boy was admitted to our hospital following a seizure. In the morning, after acquiring little sleep caused by excitement because of the trip he was to attend that morning, while driving in the car, he suddenly complained of being hot, vertiginous, and experiencing a frontal headache. His parents said he was distant, unresponsive, disoriented, and looked to the side for 15 min. The patient experienced no vomiting or foaming of the mouth. He did not recall the drive to the hospital. One month prior to the incident, a similar episode occurred in school. The family history is negative on epilepsy and other neurological diseases, but a few members from the mother's side of the family had arrhythmias. Perinatal history was uneventful. In the neonatal period, a brain ultrasound showed grades I–II intraventricular hemorrhage. The child's psychomotor development was normal, with mild articulation disorders. Physical examination at the time of admission showed no pathology. In the neurological examination, thepatient was unstable while performing the Romberg's test. Electroencephalogram (EEG) showed left frontocentro-parietal spikes, which occasionally were secondary generalized . Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 3T showed numerous serpiginous hypointensive signals in the superficial cortex posterior to the left postcentral gyrus (Figs. 2, 3, and 4). The findings are consistent not only with an aggregation of blood vessels but also with traces of calcification and superficial hemosiderosis as a sign of previous hemorrhage. Discrete glial changes were present on the surrounding gyruses. The pineal gland was enlarged, dimensions 12×6 mm, microcystically altered, but with no compression to the mesencephalic aqueduct. An extracranial cavernous hemangioma in the left frontal region was also noticed. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) showed a developmental venous anomaly with hypertrophic cortical veins forming a caput medusae and calcifications. Conclusively, neuroimaging showed a developmental venous anomaly in the left centro-parietal part of the brain as well as an extracranial cavernous hemangioma in the left frontal region. Transcranial color Doppler (TCD) of the circle of Willis showed an asymmetry with an increased mean flow velocity in the left anterior and posterior cerebral artery. Mixed scotomasin the visual field were also observed. Visual evoked potentials were normal. Heart ultrasound and Holter 24-h EKG were normal. In the follow-up, the boy experienced two more seizures with similar characteristics. He has been treated with oxcarbazepine 30 mg/kg. No seizures occurred in the last year. Control MRI scans after a year and 2 years showed no progression of the anomaly.
