History and Examination A 64-year-old man with progressive dementia (MiniMental State Examination Score 13) was referred to our department with the diagnosis of torcular DAVF. Six years earlier, he had undergone transarterial and transvenous embolization for a cavernous DAVF that presented with headache, conjunctival injection, and exophthalmos; complete obliteration of the fistula was achieved. Followup angiography performed 1 year later confirmed complete obliteration of the cavernous DAVF; however, it also revealed a new torcular DAVF, which was asymptomatic and without cortical and deep venous reflux (Borden Type I). Therefore, the patient was kept under observation. During the follow-up period, he presented at the emergencyThe successful obliteration of torcular dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) with a diffuse shunt in the affected sinus may require complex treatment strategies. Therapeutic goals include the preservation of normal venous drainage and complete obliteration of shunt flow. The authors report the case of a torcular DAVF. The treatment of this type of AVF may require a combined approach with transarterial and transvenous embolization, open surgery, or radiosurgery and is associated with many problems. Stent placement and angioplasty in the affected sinus result in compression of the fistulous dural wall of the sinus and decrease shunt flow. In cases in which there is a diffuse shunt in the affected sinus and no evident shunt point, such as in AVFs involving venous pouches and parasinuses, sealing the fistula orifice with self-expandable stents and angioplasty (balloon inflation) is considered the best treatment option to preserve normal cerebral venous sinus drainage and obliterate shunt flow. In such cases, the authors recommend using one or more self-expandable and closed-cell stents and using angioplasty to avoid endoleakage into the gap between the stent graft and the vessel wall. http:room with left paresis and sensory disturbance. Computed tomography scanning on admission demonstrated a right thalamic hemorrhage . Cerebral angiography revealed a torcular DAVF fed by multiple meningeal arteries with cortical and deep venous reflux and venous congestion (Borden Type II). Transarterial embolization was performed several times, and open surgery (sinus isolation) was performed once. Although flow in the DAVF decreased after these treatments, complete obliteration was not achieved. In addition, the multiple treatments administered caused skin flap ulceration. Thus, the skin was reconstructed with a latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous flap (anastomosis: the superficial temporal artery with the dorsal thoracic artery, the superficial temporal vein with the dorsal thoracic vein). After these therapies, cognitive function improved and venous reflux decreased. However, during the follow-up period, dementia worsened over time. We performed FLAIR MRI, which showed hyperintensities in bilateral thalami, indicating cerebral edema ( and B). In addition, T2*-weighted images showed hypointensities in bilateral thalami, which indicated previous hemorrhage and microbleeds (Markedly dilated cortical and deep veins and right transverse sinus stenosis were observed .
