A 69-year-old male presented with weakness and sudden collapse. The neurological exam was normal except mild ataxia. Head CT revealed a 4 9 3 9 3 cm right cerebellar hematoma. The patient then underwent a diagnostic cerebral angiography that showed a 3 9 2 9 1.5 cm right cerebellar AVM  supplied by the right superior cerebellar artery (SCA) and the right posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA). Left vertebral artery (VA) was dominant and the origin of the right VA was tortuous with significant atherosclerosis. Multidisciplinary discussion yielded a decision of proceeding with embolization followed by resection and evacuation of the hematoma. The patient was consented for the procedure. First, an attempted cross-catheterization of the right PICA through left VA to reach the inferior component of the AVM failed due to a very acute angle between the right VA and the basilar artery. Then right SCA was catheterized with a Marathon flow-directed microcatheter (ev3 Neurovascular, Inc., Irvine, CA, USA) and Mirage 0.008 microwire (ev3 Neurovascular, Inc., Irvine, CA, USA) combination. The microcatheter was placed in the distal hemispheric branch of the right SCA beyond the origin of the vermian branch that carried a fusiform flow-related aneurysm. Standard procedures for preparation of Onyx were followed according to the manufacturer's instructions. Slow-pulse injections were used to reach the nidus. After obliteration of the superior portion of the AVM, constant traction of the microcatheter with aspiration was applied but prolonged attempts failed to retrieve the microcatheter. Approximately after 15 min, the microcatheter could be removed proximally inside the SCA but an Onyx cast of approximately 1.5 mm diameter was attached to the tip of the microcatheter . In order to prevent further migration of the embolic material into the basilar artery, the microcatheter was left in the proximal portion of the SCA just after the superior vermian branch take-off. The microcatheter could not be left within the artery permanently due to the risk of thromboembolism in the dominant left VA and the basilar artery. Disconnection of the Onyx cast attached to the tip of the microcatheter was necessary in order to be able to withdraw the microcatheter safely. Therefore, slow DMSO injection to disconnect the Onyx and the microcatheter tip was performed. After injection of 0.15 ml of DMSO without significant resistance, gentle traction was applied to detach the microcatheter tip and the Onyx. At that moment, escape of Onyx fragments through the microcatheter shaft was seen at the immediate proximal level of the left vertebrobasilar junction . Progressive occlusion of the left vertebrobasilar junction was observed in control angiograms . It was decided to remove the Onyx fragments mechanically. First, retrieval of the microcatheter was planned in order to avoid further damage to the microcatheter structure during mechanical removal of the Onyx. Finally, Onyx fragment attached to the microcatheter tip could be detached and the microcatheter could be withdrawn. Then a Merci retriever device V 2.5 soft (Concentric Medical, Mountain View, CA, USA) was used to remove the fragment that was released into the left vertebrobasilar junction. After one pass, most of the fragment could be withdrawn but a residual fragment moved superiorly to the basilar tip. Then a second pass was done that could not withdraw the Onyx, but the residual fragment could be pushed into the proximal portion of the SCA during maneuvers. This fragment moved even further down into the distal SCA spontaneously and occluded the artery before the vermian branch origin and the fusiform aneurysm. Control angiograms showed a normal vertebrobasilar circulation without any major branch occlusion except the right SCA . The inferior portion of the AVM supplied by the right PICA was patent. A control head CT before surgery showed one miniscule hyperdense image (less than 0.1 mm) located very distally in the occipital lobe correlated with distal migration of the Onyx fragments and no hemorrhage was seen. The patient was transferred to the operation room for the resection of the inferior AVM component and hematoma evacuation. The following day he was extubated with normal neurological exam except preexisting mild ataxia and a mild headache. At postoperative day 2, patient became lethargic and MRI showed infarct in the right SCA territory. At postoperative day 3, a control cerebral angiogram showed a minimal residual AVM supplied by the posterior meningeal branch of the right VA and occlusion of A, B A left vertebral artery angiogram showing a right cerebellar AVM supplied by small distal hemispheric branches of the right superior cerebellar artery (SCA) and the right posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA). Onyx cast in the superior portion of the AVM (arrowhead) and microcatheter is retrieved proximally inside the superior cerebellar artery but an Onyx cast was attached to the tip of the microcatheter and migrated proximally in the SCA with the microcatheter (arrow). There is no Onyx cast between the AVM nidus and the microcatheter C. Senturk: Mechanical Removal of Migrated Onyx Due to Microcatheter Rupture During AVM… 1655 the right PICA after its tonsillar branch. The patient was intubated because he continued to be obtunded and control CT showed mass effect in the posterior fossa due to infarction. The patient underwent resection of the residual AVM and decompressive craniectomy. During the recovery period, he had significant ataxia and patient was transferred to an outside rehabilitation center at postoperative day 14.
