A 73-year-old man presented with malaise lasting 4 hours and weakness in the right lower limb. At a later point, a focal complex seizure with secondary generalization was treated with benzodiazepines. Cranial computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a left parietal ICH (19.5×7×10 mm 3 ). Subsequent magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the ICH and suggested an arteriovenous malformation as an underlying cause. Clinically, complete symptom regression was noted with no further seizures under treatment with levetiracetam. The patient was transferred to our hospital for further evaluation and treatment. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) showed a left parasagittal DAVF (typeIIb according to Cognard, type II according to Borden classification 7,8 ). The fistula was supplied by bilateral medial meningeal arteries (MMAs) with a deep DAVF drainage into the left internal cerebral vein . Following an interdisciplinary case discussion with neurologists and neurosurgeons, transarterial embolization was performed on day 7. The intervention took place in a hybrid operating room equipped with an Allura Xper FD20 angiography system (Philips Medical Systems, Amsterdam, the Netherlands) to ensure access to further neurosurgical options if needed. With the patient under general anesthesia, the right femoral artery was percutaneously accessed, and a 6-F Neuron 0.070-inch guiding catheter (Penumbra, Alameda, CA, USA) was placed in the proximal external carotid artery (ECA). A Marathon 1.5-F microcatheter (Medtronic/Covidien; Minneapolis, MN, USA) guided by a Synchro 0.010-inch guidewire (Synchro-10; Stryker Neurovascular, Fremont, CA, USA) was navigated into the proximal section of the left MMA. A proximal stenosis of the posterior MMA division, as well as a tortuous anterior MMA division prevented further distal advancement of the catheter and eliminated the fluid embolization option. Based on recent experience with Embozene microspheres in tumor embolization, it was decided to employ these particles to embolize the fistula. A Rebar 27 microcatheter (Medtronic/Covidien), guided by a Synchro 0.014-inch guidewire (Synchro 2 ; Stryker Neurovascular), replaced the Marathon 1.5-F catheter. Initial application of embospheres (700-and 900-μm diameters) did not achieve complete occlusion of the DAVF. Consequently, the microcatheter was exchanged for a 4-MAX catheter (Penumbra) using a Traxcess 0.014-inch guidewire and docking wire exchange system (MicroVention, Tustin, CA, USA). An Embozene microsphere solution (0.5 mL of 1100-μm spheres) was gently injected through the catheter. Control angiography of the left ECA and right common carotid artery demonstrated complete occlusion of the nidus, including the right-sided feeders . There were no complications. After the procedure, there was no evidence of rebleeding on intraoperative or postoperative CT scans. The patient remained asymptomatic under anticonvulsive therapy. At 1-year follow-up, DSA revealed persistent complete occlusion of the DAVF without any recurrent fistulas in other intracranial vessels .
