A 74-year-old female who was diagnosed to have HHT after fulfilling the four Curaçao criteria was admitted to our hospital for evaluation. The diagnosis was based on her family history, mild epistaxis (Sadick Scale 1) (11), mucocutaneous telangiectases, and the presence of hepatic and pulmonary AVMs. A huge PAVM within the left upper lobe had been diagnosed 15 years before this presentation, but treatment had been discouraged at that time due to the risk of complications. Physical evaluation revealed telangiectases present in face, lips, tongue and fingers, distal cyanosis, tachycardia, a systo-diastolic murmur on left hemithorax and hypoxemia at rest showed the presence of a huge PAVM within the left upper lobe, a smaller PAVM close to the latter and a third complex PAVM within the apical segment of the right lobe with two feeding arteries with a diameter of 6, 5 mm . The main left PAVM had a single feeding artery measuring at 12 mm in diameter and a huge aneurysm that measured 90×88×74 mm with a thrombus inside. Successful embolotherapy using 10 and 18 mm Amplatzer vascular plugs of both left PAVMs was performed and thereafter pulse oximetry improved significantly (SaO2 94% at rest). Three months later the patient was admitted for reevaluation. A new MSCT scan showed complete occlusion of the aneurysm sac and the adjacent PAVM. Surprisingly, the study revealed segmental and subsegmental pulmonary embolism (PE) in the right lung. A thrombus was present in the feeding artery of the upper right lobe . The patient did not complain of any shortness of breath. Lower limb ultrasound revealed deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and the serum factor VIII levels were increased. Treatment with low molecular weight heparin was started and the factor anti-Xa levels were monitored. She remained in-hospital for a week so as to monitor any bleeding and/or embolic complications. After seven days of treatment, a new MSCT scan revealed the complete resolution of PE. Embolotherapy of the remaining right PAVM was then successfully performed. The patient was discharged thereafter was administerd oral anticoagulation for six months. During this period she only presented with mild episodes of epistaxis that were treated with YAG laser cauterization. After six months, she underwent the last part of the required embolotherapy procedure. At that time, the upper lobe PAVM was adequately closed and the anticoagulation medication was stopped.
