Jonathan Wagner, DO a,b,c , Susan M. Abdel-Rahman, PharmD b,c abstract An 8-year-old boy with hypoplastic left heart syndrome with a previous history of thrombosis within the inferior vena cava receiving stable warfarin dosing for anticoagulation was diagnosed with influenza B. He was subsequently placed on oseltamivir therapy according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention clinical practice guidelines. During the hospitalization, his international normalized ratio steadily increased to supratherapeutic levels and returned to baseline after discontinuation of oseltamivir therapy. This case represents a drug-drug interaction that has not been previously reported in children or adolescents. An extensive review of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic literature did not uncover a definitive etiology for this interaction. However, several undefined aspects in each drug's disposition pathway need further elucidation. Until this interaction is understood, caution is warranted, and close monitoring of the international normalized ratio should be performed in all patients prescribed oseltamivir concomitantly with warfarin.
Oseltamivir, a neuraminidase inhibitor used for the prophylaxis and treatment of influenza, is a well-tolerated agent with a mild side-effect profile and relatively few reported drug-drug interactions. 1–3 Oseltamivir is administered as an ethyl ester prodrug, which is converted in the liver by carboxylesterase 1A1 (HCE1) to its active metabolite oseltamivir carboxylate (OC). 4,5 OC is a direct inhibitor of neuraminidase, thereby blocking replication of the influenza virus within the host cell and subsequent penetration into unaffected mucosal tissues. 6 Neither the parent drug nor the active metabolite appear to serve as substrates, inducers, or inhibitors of cytochrome P450, although the literature in this regard is limited. 7 However, a case series in adults suggested an increase in international normalized ratio (INR) and bleeding events when oseltamivir was given concurrently with warfarin. 8 We report what is, to our knowledge, the first case of a possible oseltamivirwarfarin interaction in children.
