An 11-year-old male presented with nonspecific chest pain, fatigue on exertion, and palpitations. Physical examination revealed a grade III/VI harsh long systolic murmur heard best over the left lower sternal border. Laboratory workup was normal. The electrocardiogram (ECG) on admission demonstrated normal sinus rhythm and left ventricular hypertrophy. There were nonspecific ST-T wave changes in the anterolateral leads. Transthoracic echocardiography showed HCM with severe obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract and moderate mitral insufficiency with systolic anterior motion, normal fractional shortening. The peak gradient was 119 mm Hg, and the mean gradient was 59 mm Hg. The systolic muscular ventricular septum width was measured 30 mm. Due to the chest pain and suspected ischemic changes in ECG, thallium scintigraphy was performed. Thallium scintigraphy showed severe dipyridamole-induced ST-segment depression and reversible perfusion defects in the anterior wall. Based on these findings,the patient underwent cardiac catheterization, which demonstrated a gradient across the outflow tract of 103 mm Hg and revealed MB at the mid-segment of the LAD with a positive milking effect of approximately 95% systolic compression ( , 1B). The patient underwent open heart operation under moderate hypothermia. After cardioplegic arrest with isothermic blood cardioplegia, aortotomy was done. Extensive myectomy was applied in addition to Morrow procedure . After closure of the aortotomy, distal end of the LAD was visualized. Myocardial bridging site was identified, and constricting muscle bundles were incised from distal to proximal segment of the LAD, until full visualization of the artery. The thickness of the muscular bridge was significantly greater than we had predicted from its angiographic appearance. Its length was approximately 4 cm, and its thickness was 8 mm . We performed suture fixation of the divided bridge edges on adjacent tissue to draw them back from the LAD. A small inadvertent entry into the right ventricle during surgical unroofing of the myocardial bridge occurred, and we repaired this with a single 7/0 polypropylene mattress suture with pericardial pledged. Cardiopulmonary bypass time and cross-clamp time were 152 and 101 minutes, respectively. The patient's postoperative course was uneventful, and he was discharged from the hospital seven days after surgery. Control echocardiography in early postoperative period and two months later revealed normal left ventricular function and maximum 30 mm Hg gradient across the left ventricle (LV) outflow tract. The patient remained symptom-free six months postoperatively.
