The Spectrum Health Institutional Review Board has waived approval for this case report and individual consent from the patient was obtained.
A 28-year-old female with a history of double inlet left ventricle palliated with a nonfenestrated lateral tunnel Fontan was pregnant with her first child. She had been followed during her high-risk pregnancy by maternal–fetal medicine and adult cardiology. She underwent an uneventful cesarean section at 37 weeks, with the delivery of a healthy baby. During the pregnancy, she was maintained on aspirin and transitioned to low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) at the 35th week. Low-molecular-weight heparin was continued for four days until discharge and then the mother was switched to full strength aspirin daily for venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis. However, she never took the aspirin as she was concerned about the excretion of the medication in breast milk. At two weeks postpartum, she became acutely short of breath while grocery shopping. A computed tomography (CT) angiogram in the emergency department confirmed a massive pulmonary embolus obstructing the central and branch pulmonary arteries . She was immediately transferred from a regional hospital to the adult congenital heart center by helicopter. She received immediate fluid resuscitation and heparinization and her hemodynamic condition improved. A second CT angiogram was performed, which confirmed the presence of massive central pulmonary embolus. She underwent emergent embolectomy with femoral venous cannulation and cardiopulmonary bypass (see for a photograph of the massive saddle embolus). Postsurgery, she made an uneventful recovery from a hemodynamic standpoint. A postoperative CT angiogram confirmed good surgical outcome . She was maintained on intravenous heparin and commenced on warfarin. Heparin was discontinued once her international normalized ratio (INR) reached 2.0, with a target range of 2 to 3. She was discharged 19 days postadmission and remains on long-term warfarin prophylaxis with no complications at follow-up.
