A 25-year-old man was referred to our hospital and presented with a red, pulsating mass and severe bleeding in the right ear. Transarterial angiography demonstrated an AVM in the right ear characterized with expanded tortuous reflux veins . After a thorough angiographic evaluation, we planned to reduce the vein outflow by reflux vein embolization with platinum coils through a direct puncture, followed by absolute ethanol embolization through either transarterial or the direct puncture approach. The venous pouch was directly punctured with a 16 G needle (Lichtwitz antrum needle, MEDICON, Tuttlingen, Germany). Once the position of the needle into the venous pouch was verified on the direct venogram, the core needle was removed and a 2.2F microcatheter was induced through the needle. With the guidance of a guide wire, the microcatheter was induced as close as possible to the exit of the dilated outflow vein. Then, 0.018 mm NEST coils (Cook, Bloomington, USA) were released through the 2.2F microcatheter. The first coil, 4-mm in diameter and 3-mm in length, was released and settled at the venous sac close to the fistula . However, rapid migration of the second released 0.018 mm NEST coil via thevenous sac into the external jugular vein occurred instantaneously. The coil migrated to the pulmonary artery and settled in the lung; the coil appeared to be trapped in the lower lobe of the right lung. The migration speed of the coil was too rapid to be clearly detected on angiography. The same result occurred to the first released coil after several minutes. Two coils were detected on the chest film . All procedures were performed under general anesthesia. The patient did not show any cardiopulmonary parameter changes and absolute ethanol embolization was continued to obliterate the lesion. The PT, APTT, INR, and D-dimer were check on the same day after the coil migration and no significant differences were detected. The patient showed a good recovery and was discharged one week later. With the venous pouch blocked by 0.018 mm electrolytically detachable coils (68 cm in length, MicroVention, Tustin, USA) combined with the 0.018 mm NEST coils, absolute ethanol embolization was again performed in this patient over a onemonth period under general anesthesia until the AVMs were effectively controlled after 6 procedures of embolization . The medical records indicated no evidence of pulmonary symptoms, such as a cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, tachypnea, or arterial hypoxemia, in the early postinterventional period and during the follow-up period. Clinical data were available up to 24 months after the last procedure. The pulmonary function evaluation, including the tidal volume (TV), inspiratory reserve volume (IRV), expiratory reserve volume (ERV) and residual volume (RV), was checked and no significant differences were detected every month in the first six months or at the bi-annual follow-up thereafter. No further damage related to the coil migration was observed during the 2-year follow-up.
