A 20-month-old girl with Down's syndrome presented with hypoglycaemic generalised tonic-clonic convulsion. She was managed with a dextrose bolus, followed by intravenous dextrose infusion. She had persistent hypoglycaemia and was unable to come off the intravenous fluids. She was previously on continuous gastrostomy feeds and was recently converted to 3 boluses of 240 ml Nutrini multifibre during the daytime. She was born at 35 weeks of gestation by normal delivery with a birth weight of 2.3 kg. She had multiple anomalies including a ventricular septal defect (repaired), oesophageal atresia and tracheo-esophageal fistula (repaired), and gastro-oesophageal reflux (requiring Nissen's fundoplication and gastrostomy feeds). The hypoglycaemia screen in the local hospital suggested HH (laboratory glucose 1.6 mmol/l, insulin 88 pmol/l and C-peptide 531 pmol/l). The rest of the screening bloods were normal (lactate 1.3 mmol/l, ammonia 41 μmol/l, cortisol 385 nmol/l, T4 13.5 pmol/l, TSH 4.4 mU/l). The blood spot carnitine profile, plasma amino acids and urine organic acids were all normal. She was commenced on 5 mg/kg/day of diazoxide and 7.5 mg/kg/day of chlorothiazide for the management of HH. However, she continued to have hypoglycaemic episodes despite the maximal dose of diazoxide (15 mg/kg/day). She was transferred to our tertiary centre for further management. Her glucose requirement was 10 mg/kg/min. She had a controlled fast, which revealed hypoglycaemia after 4 h. However, insulin was suppressed at the end of the fast. The serum galactose level was normal. She subsequently underwent an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) which revealed post-prandial HH ( table 1 ). A liver ultrasound scan demonstrated a PSS between the inferior vena cava and portal vein through a patent ductus venosus, which was subsequently confirmed with an abdominal MRI . Given her marked postprandial hyperinsulinism, a working diagnosis of postprandial shunting of insulin across the liver causing effective hyperinsulinaemia, which was previously masked by continuous feeds, was considered. The diazoxide and chlorothiazide were stopped. She was started on continuous feeds, after which her hypoglycaemia settled and she was able to come off the intravenous fluids. She developed episodes ofIn view of the persistent issues with hypoglycaemia, she underwent surgical closure of the shunt. Laparotomy confirmed a small but normal liver with no other evident anomalies. The shunt arose from the back of the portal vein bifurcation to the distal intrahepatic cava. Ligation of the shunt restored the normal antegrade haemodynamic flow into her portal venous system without undue rise in mesenteric venous pressures. Her hypoglycaemic episodes resolved after surgery and she was able to fast for 10 h without any hypoglycaemia. Much more importantly, the repeat OGTT after surgery did not reveal any hypoglycaemia and the insulin concentrations were not as elevated as before the surgery ( table 2 ). She was established on bolus feeds after surgery.
