A 40 year old lady from Kosovo, was referred to our hospital for severe pulmonary arterial hypertension and a mass in right atrium suspected for vegetation. About one month before, she was admitted in another hospital and received iv medication. The patient was febrile and the C-reactive protein, white cell count and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were elevated. Blood cultures demonstrated a methacilin sensitive Staphylococcus aureus growth. Transthoracic echocardiograhy demonstrated a mobile, irregularly shaped, oscillating and highly mobile mass, located above the tricuspid valve septal leaflet . A clear jet across a small defect between left ventricle and right atrium consistent with Gerbode type defect was identified. The direction of the Doppler signal also leads to the true diagnosis . Cardiac magnetic resonance demonstrated a supravalvular flow associated with infravalvular jet according to the type C acquired Gerbode defect . A normal lung scan excluded pulmonary embolism. The tricuspid regurgitation was considered mild-to-moderate with estimated pulmonary arterial systolic pressure about 60-80 mmHg. The patients underwent surgery after 2 weeks of antiobiotic therapy. Through a right atriotomy, large vegetation was attached to the septal leaflet and anterior leaflet of tricuspid valve was identified. On removal of the vegetation, a defect was found communicating between the left ventricle and right atrium . This defect represented an acquired Gerbode defect and was closed by two 5/0 pledgeted prolene sutures . Then the septal leaflet of tricuspid valve was resected and was replaced with a trimmed autologous pericardial patch. Anteriorly the newly created septal leaflet was attached to the anterior leaflet. Then, two synthetic chorda were employed . The hydraulic maneuver demonstrated trivial tricuspid valve regurgitation . Then the right atrium was closed. After an uneventfully post-operative period, the patient was discharged home in good clinical condition. Echocardiogram demonstrated trivial tricuspid valve regurgitation and no residual shunt. One year later the patient was doing well. The transthoracic echocardiography at follow-up demonstrated a moderate tricuspid valve regurgitation and no residual shunt.
