The proband was evaluated at 28 years of age. On examination, he had normal height (174.8 cm), Noonan-like face ( , B), several large café-au-lait macules, diffuse freckling including intertriginous areas ( , D), a 1 cm subcutaneous mass of the right thigh and skin redundancy of the palms and soles. He had a history of congenital bilateral sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) and mitral valve prolapse with regurgitation confirmed by echocardiogram (ECHO), but normal EKG. Due to back pain, he had a spine MRI, which showed multiple tumours involving several lumbar and sacral nerves ( , F). Ophthalmology evaluation was normal with no evidence of Lisch nodules. Family history was unremarkable other than his mother with skin freckling and a diagnosis of fibromyalgia. She had not been formally evaluated. cDNA/DNA sequencing and copy number analysis for NF1 and SPRED1 mutations from a blood sample were negative. PTPN11 analysis disclosed a heterozygous mutation in exon 12 (c.1403 C>T, p.Thr468Met).
The proband presented at our institution at age 50 years for evaluation of suspected neurofibromatosis due to skin hyperpigmentation, multiple subcutaneous tumours and severe back pain. On examination, he had normal height (173.7 cm), multiple lentigines on his chest, back and axilla, pectus excavatum, dysmorphic facial features and redundant skin of the palms and soles ( –J). Ophthalmologic exam was normal and Lisch nodules were not present. He had a history of atrial fibrillation and left anterior fascicular block on EKG, while the ECHO was normal. He had mild-moderate (left) and moderate-severe (right) SNHL and chronic back pain. A head and spine MRI showed bilateral symmetric masses along cranial nerves V, VII, IX and X, but no optic gliomas. Plexiform neurofibromas in pelvis, confirmed by biopsy ( , H), and neurogenic tumours at every spinal level ( , L) and scattered neurofibromas involving the intercostal nerves were present. Electrophysiological testing revealed a severe, progressive, length-dependent, primarily axonal, sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy. MRI of the lower extremities and open biopsy showed diffusely enlarged nerves ( , B) and abundant onion bulbs formations without significant inflammation ( –E). His family history was positive for a father with polyneuropathy, chronic back pain and skin freckling, a daughter and two sisters with freckling, and a nephew with café-au-lait spots, freckling and hearing loss. Family photographs disclosed similar facial features in these individuals, but none of them were available for formal evaluation. Comprehensive NF1 testing on the peripheral blood leucocytes was negative and PTPN11 sequence analysis disclosed the presence of a heterozygous mutation (c.1403 C>T, p.Thr468Met). Mutation analysis of hypertrophic nerve tissue did not disclose loss of heterozygosity or a second mutation in PTPN11 gene, or a mutation in the NF1, NF2 or SMARCB1 genes.
A 16-year-old girl presented for evaluation of hyper-pigmented skin lesions, chronic chest pain and a hypertrophic cardiomyopathy diagnosed at birth. Her early psychomotor and pubertal development was normal. In early adolescence, she received a diagnosis of autistic spectrum disorder. She had normal ophthalmological exam with the absence of Lisch nodules, normal height (165.6 cm), macrocephaly (head circumference 60 cm), Noonan-like features ( , N), multiple lentigines over her face, shoulders, torso, axillas and five café-au-lait macules ( , P). The audiogram disclosed moderate bilateral SNHL. Her small hand joints were hypermobile, and there was redundancy of skin over the palms and soles. One subcutaneous firm nodule was palpable on the right elbow, with shooting pain down the arm upon compression of the mass. ECHO was consistent with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and EKG showed generalised T-wave flattening, repolarisation abnormality and prolonged QT interval. Due to persistent unexplained chest pain, an MRI of the spine was performed and disclosed mild thickening of nerve roots in lower lumbar levels ( , R). Her family history was positive for a mother (patient 4) and maternal grandmother who had similar facial features, skin freckling and hearing loss. Maternal grandmother also had a diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and died suddenly at age 63 from presumed cardiac complications.
