A neonate with truncus arteriosus and a moderately regurgitant truncal valve underwent repair (separation of branch pulmonary arteries from common arterial trunk, truncus valve repair, closure of ventricular septal defect, and a 12-mm right ventricle to pulmonary artery bovine jugular vein conduit) on day 18 of life. The postoperative course was complicated by refractory junctional ectopic tachycardia and low cardiac output status manifesting as oliguria, lactic acidosis, low cerebral and mixed venous saturations, and capillary leak. Therapeutic interventions included antiarrhythmic, inotropic and vasoconstrictor medication, modest hypothermia to 35 C, and delayed closure of sternum. Low-dose heparin infusion (10 units/kg/h) was started four hours after the operation for antithrombotic prophylaxis for the CVC (right femoral 5F triple lumen, tip located in the IVC at L-4). Despite this, the right leg appeared dusky and mottled on postoperative day 1 (POD-1). Peritoneal dialysis was commenced at 30 hours postoperatively for oliguria. The development of thrombocytopenia andcoagulopathy led to a decision to discontinue heparin and transfuse fresh frozen plasma and platelets. Ultrasonography (US) and Doppler study (femoral veins, iliac veins, IVC, and renal veins) at this time failed to demonstrate discrete venous thrombus, and absent blood flow around the venous line implied catheter-related obstruction. Over the next several days, the hemodynamic status improved but renal function worsened, with persistent thrombocytopenia. A repeat renal US study on POD-7 demonstrated features of bilateral RVT with diffuse parenchymal swelling of both kidneys and thrombus in the IVC . Spectral flow within the main renal arteries was highly pulsatile with diastolic flow reversal, suggesting elevated parenchymal vascular resistance. Linear, highly echogenic foci were demonstrated within the parahilar region of the kidney, representing segmental vein thrombosis. There was no flow within the main renal veins. Lupus anticoagulant, factor V gene G1691A mutation (factor V Leiden), and prothrombin gene G20210A mutation were not detected. Protein C, protein S, and plasma antithrombin III activity were normal. Baseline echocardiography and cranial and abdominal US were performed, and informed parental consent was obtained for thrombolytic therapy. The baby received 100 units of antithrombin and a platelet transfusion. Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rTPA) was then administered at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg/h for six hours (total dose of 10.3 mg) through the femoral CVC on POD-7. The infusion was monitored by maintaining fibrinogen levels >1 g/L. On completion of rTPA infusion, the right femoral CVC was removed and the heparin infusion recommenced. Renal US-Doppler eight hours post rTPA  demonstrated re-establishment of venous flow with triphasic waveform within both main renal veins and resolution of the IVC thrombus. Renal parenchymal swelling was reduced. Spectral traces within both main renal arteries appeared near normal with a broader systolic upstroke and normal forward diastolic flow. Repeat cranial and abdominal US and echocardiography were unchanged. There was no significant bleeding of any type related to rTPA infusion. Renal function began to improve the next day . The sentence is complete as intended. The thrombocytopenia resolved over five days, and the baby was discharged from the ICU on POD-21. The heparin infusion was changed to daily subcutaneous enoxaparin. The baby was discharged from hospital on POD-40. The enoxaparin was continued for three months. The discharge renal US demonstrated no residual thrombus in the renal veins and IVC.
