A 76-year-old man was referred to our institution with a 3-week history of nausea and vomiting, inability to walk, and blurred vision. The patient's medical history included prostatovesiculectomy for prostate carcinoma 7 years earlier, resection of several benign colorectal adenomas 6 months earlier, goiter, recently diagnosed intermittent atrial fibrillation, arterial hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia. There was no history of trauma. Neurological examination showed severe truncal and limb ataxia accentuated on the right side, postural instability, dysphagia, right-sided ptosis, and mild facial asymmetry. Brain MRI revealed a contrast-enhancing lesion of the right pontomedullary junction extending to the right inferior cerebellar peduncle with slight mass effect ( –C). Suspicion of a neoplastic lesion (brainstem glioma or lymphoma) or inflammatory lesion (i.e., tumefactive demyelinating lesion) was raised. CSF analysis showed an elevated total protein level of 1010 mg/L and elevated CSF/serum albumin ratio of 14.5, indicative of blood-brain barrier disruption. There was no local synthesis of immunoglobulins. The cell count was normal (1/ml) with 90% lymphocytes and 10% monocytes. Analysis for B-and T-cell clonality was negative. Findings of further laboratory tests were normal except for a nonspecific elevation of antinuclear antibody (ANA) of 1:3200 (reference titer < 1:50, Hep2-cells). The pontomedullary lesion showed a mildly increased metabolism on FDG-PET (not shown) that was not very indicative of cerebral lymphoma. Since the imaging diagnosis of this lesion remained unclear and a neoplastic lesion had not been ruled out, a stereotactic biopsy via a left frontal trajectory was performed. Histomorphology and immunohistochemistry showed edematous brain tissue with mild astrogliosis and microgliosis. There were no signs of a neoplastic, inflammatory, or infectious process. An empirical treatment with prednisolone was initiated, and the patient's neurological symptoms gradually improved over a period of 3 months. The patient was able to walk, his dysphagia was markedly improved, and the previously implanted percutaneous gastrostomy tube could be removed. Follow-up MRI showed a slight de
