An eight-month-old female patient with Williams syndrome, prenatally diagnosed with supravalvular aortic stenosis, was admitted to the department of cardiology in order to evaluate the patient's hemodynamic status and establish further diagnostic and therapeutic proceedings. On admission, the patient's oxygen saturation was 99%, and the blood pressure measured on four limbs was normal and equal. There were ST changes in the electrocardiogram (ST depression of 2 mm in II and V3-V6). The troponin T level was slightly elevated (76 pg/mL, norm: <14 pg/mL). Echocardiography showed supravalvular aortic stenosis with a peak pressure gradient of 100 mm Hg (mean: 52 mm Hg). Both the pulmonary valve and the main pulmonary artery were normal in appearance, with increased velocity flow in both the left (3 m/s) and right (2.8 m/s) pulmonary arteries, corresponding to peak pressure gradients of 36 mm Hg (mean: 12.4 mm Hg) and 27 mm Hg (mean: 9.5 mm Hg), respectively. Left ventricular ejection fraction was 72%, shortening fraction was 39%. The origin of the coronary arteries was not visualized in the study. The patient was referred to the catheterization laboratory for angiography and further hemodynamic assessment. Cardiac catheterization confirmed the presence of supravalvular aortic stenosis with a diameter of 4 mm (gradient: 50-60 mm Hg) and additionally revealed severe narrowing of the left main coronary artery to a diameter of 0.5 mm ( and B). Maximal stenosis of the aorta was 7 mm above the aortic valve, corresponding to a distance of 1.4 mm above the level of the left main coronary artery ostium. Surgical treatment was indicated for supravalvular aortic stenosis and left main coronary artery stenosis. Aortic and bicaval venous cannulation was used, and moderate hypothermia was established on cardiopulmonary bypass. An aortic cross-clamp was placed high, and cold-blood cardioplegia solution was infused into the aortic root. The aortic reconstruction started with a complete transection of the ascending aorta at the level of maximal stenosis. Longitudinal aortic incisions into the sinuses: noncoronary and left coronary were performed similar to Brom's method 6 but involving only two sinuses instead of three. The left coronary sinus was then incised in the direction of the left main coronary artery orifice. The incision was extended into the left main coronary artery and left anterior descending artery to a point slightly beyond the origin of the circumflex artery. A triangular patch of autologous pericardium was sutured to the edges of the incised coronary artery and aorta, up to the level of aortic transection . A second triangular-shaped patch of autologous pericardium was sutured into the noncoronary sinus, further enlarging the supravalvular aortic stenosis. The distal ascending aorta was then longitudinally incised to equalize the diameter with respect to the surgically enlarged proximal side. End-to-end anastomosis of the proximal and distal aorta completed the reconstruction. Once the restoration was finished, the left heart was de-aired and cross clamp was removed. Cardiopulmonary bypass time was 81 minutes and aortic cross-clamp time was 46 minutes. The child was managed with infusions of dopamine and milrinone. Separation from mechanical ventilation and extubation of the trachea were accomplished five hours after the operation. She was discharged the next day from the intensive care unit. Cardiac enzymes in the postoperative period gradually decreased and echocardiography showed good ventricular contractility with left ventricular ejection fraction of 86% and a peak systolic gradient at the aortic anastomosis of 13 mm Hg. No progression of ischemic changes was observed on the postoperative electrocardiogram in comparison with the preoperative study. The patient was discharged from the hospital 13 days postoperatively, with subsequent outpatient follow-up at the department of cardiology.
