A 29-year-old woman with a history of hypertension and previous subarachnoid hemorrhage 1 month ago was referred to our neurosurgical department because of symptoms including headache, vomiting, fecal and urinary incontinence, and paraplegia for 9 h on December 2, 2011. She had a history of hypertension for 13 years, and she had previously undergone two caesarean deliveries because of uncontrolled hypertension. On physical examination, she was conscious but nuchal rigidity was noted. Her heart rate was 62 beats/min with a regular rhythm and no heart murmurs. She had no tremor or cyanosis in her distal extremities. Her blood pressure was 165/88 mmHg in the upper extremities, and 94/59 mmHg in the lower extremities. She had no sensation to pain or light touch below the xiphoid process. Her muscle strength was normal at 5/5 in both upper extremities, but absent at 0/5 in both lower extremities. Kernig and Brudzinski signs were both positive. An electrocardiogram revealed sinus rhythm, an incomplete right bundle-branch block and LV hypertrophy. Non-contrast head CT demonstrated a subarachnoid hemorrhage and bilateral ventricle hematocele. Aortography showed a bird's beak appearance and total interruption of the descending aorta atlevel T 8–10 , and the collateral vessels were tortuous and dilated . The patient was diagnosed with descending aorta interruption, subarachnoid hemorrhage, paraplegia, and secondary hypertension. On admission, she had also been diagnosed with pneumonia. She was transferred to our cardiothoracic surgery department. 15 days later, after treatment of her pneumonia, she underwent a successful operation without extracorporeal circulation. We made a posterolateral thoracotomy on the left chest. A 5 cm long, streak like coarctation located from 7 to 12 cm above the diaphragm of the descending aorta was found at the time of surgery. After opening the lesion, we found a complete interruption of the aorta rather than a coarctation. A thrombus which measured approximately 3.0 cm × 3.0 cm × 3.5 cm was also found proximal to the interruption site. We performed a bypass of this interruption using a Gore-Tex® graft that was 1.4 cm in diameter and 12 cm in length . The postoperative pathological report indicated mixed thrombus with calcification. Postoperative blood pressure less than 24 h later improved to 120/70 mmHg in the upper extremities and 122/88 mmHg in the lower extremities. The patient began to recover sensory and motor function on postoperative day 3. Chest CT with three-dimensional reconstruction images on postoperative day 15 demonstrated good graft patency . Three weeks after hospital discharge, her bowel and bladder function had recovered completely, her sensory function had recovered above the level of the knee, and her muscle strength was improved at 3/5 in the right calf and 2/5 in the left calf. Five months after discharge, the patient completely regained normal sensory function, and she had begun walking with only mild claudication symptoms.
