We present a 68-year-old male patient with history of renal cell carcinoma who was treated by partial nephrectomy. The patient also had abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) which was treated by endovascular aortic stent graft and presented to our institution for computed tomography angiogram (CTA) of the abdomen and pelvis as part of a routine follow-up. The CTA demonstrated that the aortic stent graft was patent. However, there was contrast opacification of the renal vein during the arterial phase suggesting renal AVF, with a large Pseudoaneurysm (PSA) connecting the renal artery and renal vein at the site of left partial nephrectomy . The clinical team was concerned about the potential rupture of the large PSA, and due to the patient's associated comorbidities, an interdisciplinary consensus opted to offer the patient a minimally invasive treatment. Therefore, the patient was referred to our Interventional Department for percutaneous transcatheter embolotherapy of the renal AVF and the associated large PSA. The patient was brought to our angiosuite, and right common femoral artery access was obtained. The initial aortogram showed a large PSA involving the upper pole of the left kidney with early opacification of the renal vein, consistent with a renal AVF . The right renal artery was then catheterized using 5F catheter (RC2; Cook, Bloomington, Indiana) and angiogram was performed, which showed a large PSA fed by one of the upper pole branches of the renal artery and draining directly into the renal vein . A 2.8F microcatheter (Miraflex; Merit, South Jordan, Utah) was then advanced into the PSA, and 3 variable-sized detachable hydrogel coils (Azur; Terumo, Tokyo, Japan) were deployed into the PSA . During deployment, the third coil migrated through the renal vein to a left inferior pulmonary artery branch. The migrated coil was retrieved using a snare (Goose neck snare; Covidien, Plymouth, Minnesota) through a right femoral vein approach . The renal AVF remained patent. In order to prevent further coil migration, an occlusion balloon catheter (Fogarty; Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine, California) was inflated in the renal vein close to the PSA to occlude the renal AVF outflow . Several hydrogel coils were then deployed as mentioned earlier. Thrombosis of the PSA was then augmented by slowly injecting 300 units of thrombin into the PSA. The occlusion balloon was deflated and follow-up angiogram showed absent flow in the PSA, denoting occlusion of the renal AVF. The procedure was terminated, and the patient was discharged home after an uneventful 24 hours of observation. A routine follow-up CTA performed 2 months after the procedure to evaluate the aortic stent graft showed interval recanalization of the renal AVF, with several metal artifacts related to preexisting coils in PSA . Therefore, the patient was referred to our service again for further evaluation and treatment. The right common femoral artery was accessed and a 6F sheath (Flexor Ansel sheath; Cook, Bloomington, Indiana) was placed at the origin of the left renal artery. A 6F guiding catheter (Launcher; Medtronic, Minneapolis, Minnesota) was then advanced into the upper pole branch that feeds the renal AVF, and angiogram was performed and demonstrated preexisting coils residing in the PSA, with recanalization of the renal AVF . At this point, a 6-mm AVP 2 was placed at the junction of the feeding artery and the PSA . Position was then confirmed by angiogram, and the device was deployed. Follow-up angiogram performed from the main renal artery showed occlusion of the feeding artery with absent filling of the PSA denoting successful embolization .The patient had an unremarkable recovery and was discharged home in a stable condition. Follow-up CTAs done 4 and 10 months after the procedure and showed AVP 2 device residing in the left renal artery branch feeder without artifacts. There was no evidence of recanalization of the renal AVF .
