Our hospital does not require institutional review board approval for retrospective analysis reports such as this report. The written informed consent was obtained from patients' parents or guardian.
A 4-year-old Chinese boy presented with a 1-year history of cyanosis and dyspnea on exertion. Physical examination on admission revealed a central cyanosis and digital clubbing with a resting pulse oximetry (SpO 2 ) of 76 % on room air. Chest and cardiac examination results were unremarkable. A blood test results showed hemoglobin of 151 g/L, white blood cell count of 3.7×10 9 /L, and platelet count of 93×10 9 /L. Liver function test results were normal except for a low albumin of 26.9 g/L. Serum ammonia was elevated to 87 μmol/L (normal range 9 to 33 μmol/L); however, there was no sign of hepatic encephalopathy. The coagulation profile was slightly abnormal with prothrombin time of 19.3 s, international normalized ratio (INR) of 1.94, and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) of 38.3 s. An electrocardiogram and chest X-ray results were unremarkable. No cardiac abnormality was detected by echocardiogram. A cardiac catheterization was performed for the unexplained cyanosis, which suggested an intrapulmonary shunt without pulmonary hypertension. A contrast echocardiography with agitated saline showed the appearance of microbubbles in the left atrium after four cardiac cycles, suggestive of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula. A contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen was subsequently performed and a portosystemic shunt arising from the main portal vein (MPV) into the inferior vena cava (IVC) was identified. A superior mesenteric arteriography obtained in the venous phase confirmed the CT findings as well as a poor intrahepatic portal venous system. In view of the above findings, the patient was diagnosed with type II CEPS with associated HPS. A 10-year-old Chinese girl presented with a 5-year history of cyanosis, dyspnea on exertion, and growth failure. Physical examination on admission revealed a central cyanosis and digital clubbing with a resting SpO 2 of 70 % on room air. The patients' weight was significantly below the 5th percentile for age. There was no heart murmur detected, and the respiratory sounds were clear. No hepatosplenomegaly or other evidence of chronic liver disease was noted. A blood test results showed hemoglobin level of 175 g/L, white blood cell count of 3.1×10 9 /L, and platelet count of 70×10 9 /L. Liver function test results were normal except for a low albumin of 32 g/L. The coagulation profile was slightly abnormal with prothrombin time of 18.1 s, INR of 1.54, and APTT of 51.1 s. The patients' venous ammonium level was found to be elevated at 96 μmol/L (normal range 9 to 33 μmol/L); however, no sign of hepatic encephalopathy was observed. Electrocardiogram findings were normal and no cardiac abnormality was detected by echocardiogram. A chest X-ray showed diffuse pulmonary hypervascularization. A right cardiac catheterization was performed, which showed a normal pulmonary artery pressure. A selective lung angiography showed immediate opacification of the left atrium and diffuse reticular pattern on both lungs, suggestive of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula ( , Online Resource 1). The 99m Tc-macroaggregated albumin scintigraphy revealed 29 % right to left shunting, which indicated intrapulmonary shunting in the absence of an intracardiac shunt. This finding prompted us to perform abdominal evaluation. An abdominal ultrasonography (USG) was performed to evaluate the hepatic portal system and the results revealed an abnormal communication between the MPV and IVC. The hepatic parenchymal echogenicity was normal. A subsequent abdominal angiography confirmed the USG findings, showing a 13-mm diameter anomalous venous connection between the MPV and IVC in a side-to-side manner. A mild intrahepatic portal vein hypoplasia was noted ( , Online Resource 2A). A balloon occlusion test was then performed in the IVC at the site of the shunt ( , Online Resource 2B), which indicated an increase in portal pressure from 12 to 15 mmHg. Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with type II CEPS with associated HPS.
A 4-year-old Chinese boy was referred to the Department of Cardiology, Shanghai Children's Medical Center, with a 3-year history of cyanosis and decreased exercise tolerance. Physical examination results revealed that the boy was mildly malnourished and hypoxic with a resting SpO 2 of 86 % on room air. No clubbing was found. Lung sounds were clear, and the cardiac examination findings were normal. Abdomen was soft with no appreciable organomegaly. Blood test results were significant for polycythemia with a hemoglobin level of 167 g/L and hematocrit of 46 %. Serum ammonia was elevated to 99 μmol/L (normal range 9 to 33 μmol/L); however, there was no sign of hepatic encephalopathy. The results of liver function tests and coagulation tests were normal. A chest X-ray demonstrated a mild cardiomegaly and increased pulmonary vascular patterns. An echocardiogram showed a structurally normal heart. A cardiac catheterization was then performed for the unexplained cyanosis, which suggested an intrapulmonary shunt without pulmonary hypertension. The 99m Tc-macroaggregated albumin scintigraphy showed a 31 % right to left shunting. This finding prompted us to perform abdominal evaluation. An abdominal USG and CT scan showed a large communication between the splenic vein and the left renal vein. A selective catheter angiography was subsequently performed, and the results confirmed the presence of portosystemic shunt as well as a good intrahepatic portal venous system. A balloon occlusion test was then performed in the shunt and the portal vein pressure before and after the temporary occlusion of the shunt was 11 and 15 mmHg, respectively. Given these findings, it was concluded that the patient had HPS secondary to type II CEPS.
