A six-month-old infant with a large VSD, small ostium secundum-type ASD, and pulmonary hypertension was referred for surgical correction. He presented with failure to thrive and was on anticongestive medications. Preoperative echocardiogram revealed a large membranous VSD with bidirectional but predominantly left to right shunting, left ventricular enlargement, mild right ventricular (RV) hypertrophy, and a small secundum ASD. There was lowvelocity Doppler flow across the VSD indicating elevated RV systolic pressure. The patient underwent uneventful patch closure of the VSD and primary closure of the ASD. Postoperatively, the patient remained hemodynamically stable. However, systemic oxygen saturation was low and remained in the mid-80% range on supplemental oxygen (50% inhaled oxygen concentration). He was extubated to nasal continuous positive airway pressure support on the day of surgery. There was no radiological evidence of significant lung disease to account for desaturation. An echocardiogram revealed a small residual VSD with left to right shunt. Echocardiography during agitated saline contrast injection in a left forearm vein showed evidence of right to left shunting at the atrial level but without a residual ASD . Differential diagnosis included pulmonary arteriovenous malformations, persistent left superior vena cava (LSVC) to LA, and unroofed CS. Cardiac catheterization was performed. Angiograms demonstrated a type III unroofed CS . There was no evidence of persistent LSVC or pulmonary arteriovenous malformation by angiograms. Hemodynamic calculation using Fick principle demonstrated a net right to left shunt with Qp–Qs ratio of0.6, mildly elevated right atrial and RV end-diastolic pressures, and normal RV and pulmonary artery systolic pressures. Transcatheter closure of the CS septal defect was considered but was deferred due to young age of the patient, size of the patient, and size of the CS septal defect. He made an uneventful recovery with improvement in oxygen saturation to 94% on room air at discharge. Elective transcatheter closure of the CS septal defect will be considered in a few years.
