A 37-year-old right-handed man presented to our institution suffering with seizures for four months. His cognitive function had decreased, but other neurological examinations were intact. Family and clinical history of vasculopathy (hemorrhagic hereditary telangiectasia disorder) were negative. Laboratory analysis for coagulation was normal. Digital subtraction angiography ) was located in the left frontal motor area supplied by the left middle cerebral artery (MCA). Venous drainage was predominantly superficial into the superior sagittal sinus through cortical veins, the Trolard vein, and other cortical veins that used the same venous outlet . The other pial AVF  was located in the right occipital lobe supplied by the right posterior cerebral artery (PCA). Venous drainage was predominantly superficial into the right transverse sinus through cortical veins, and no cortical veins connecting the venous outlet were identified . Staged endovascular coil embolization was performed. First, the left MCA AVF was completely occluded  and treated with loose packing of the giant venous pouch using big and long coils (eV3, Irvine, CA) followed by tight packing of the fistulous portion with small coils (eV3). The patient's blood pressure (120–100/80–60 mmHg) was controlled at approximately 80% of the basal blood pressure for three days after the procedure. Intravenous heparin (3000 IU) was administered during the procedure, and then low molecular weight heparin (subcutaneous injection, 0.4 mL/12 hours) was administered for two days. The patient was discharged uneventfully. Three months later, the right PCA AVF was treated with coils. The treatment strategy and materials used were the same as for the first embolization, and finally the PCA AVF was nearly completely occluded . Anticoagulation therapy was not administered due to incomplete occlusion, and no other normal veins were using the same venous outlet . However, the patient's blood pressure was controlled (120–100/80–60 mmHg). The patient had a headache, and a computerized tomography (CT) brain scan was performed at 3, 12, and 24 hours postoperatively. The scan showed progressive venous thrombosis and intracranial hemorrhage . The patient was then transferred to the neurological intensive care unit, and underwent external ventricle drainage with intracranial pressure monitoring. The patient was back to baseline at the five-month followup after the second treatment. A follow-up CT brain scan showed no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage, and DSA showed complete occlusion of the two pial AVFs .
