This 28-year-old female presented with intermittent left eye proptosis, which occurred on bending forward, and on straining. This was associated with orbital pain and diplopia. On examination, there was no bruit or pulsation. Ophthalmologic examination revealed normal visual acuity and no field or fundus defect. Ocular movements were normal. MRI showed an intraconal hypo-to isointense mass ( (a) to (c)), which showed delayed intense contrast enhancement ( (d) to (f)). Under general anesthesia, venography/phlebography through the right femoral venous route was performed. A microcatheter (Progreat, Terumo Corporation, Belgium) was placed through the left inferior petrosal sinus ( (a) and
(b)) via the cavernous sinus and superior ophthalmic vein into the orbital variceal sac ( (c) and (d)). A few detachable coils were deployed in the sac ( (e)); however, dense packing was avoided. Despite this, a small leak was identified at the time of coiling. This was followed by coiling of the distal part of the superior ophthalmic vein, which was communicating with these varices ( (f)). After embolization, there was no filling of these varices from the cavernous sinus. The inferior ophthalmic vein showed no communication with these sacs and was left patent ( (f)). On follow up, this patient showed excellent relief of her symptoms within a month of the procedure, and was symptom free when she came for follow up after a year.
This was a case of a 19-year-old female who presented with proptosis on the left side on straining and bending forward, which was associated with retro-orbital pain. Her ophthalmological examination, including visual acuity, ocular movements, field and fundus, was unremarkable. MRI of the orbits revealed a T2 hyperintense ( (a) and (b)) and a T1 hypo-to isointense intraand extraconal mass lesion ( (c) and (d)) with delayed contrast enhancement ( (e) and (f)) suggestive of varices. She underwent microcatheterization through the right femoral venous route, going through the same route via the left inferior petrosal sinus ( (a)). Microcatheter angiography in the superior ophthalmic vein showed communication with the distended venous sacs ( (b) and (c)). The patient underwent embolization with detachable coils. A few coils were placed in the sac and the rest in the distal superior ophthalmic vein so as to cut off its central venous communication ( (d) to (f)). On follow up, the patient showed partial relief of her symptoms with preserved normal visual acuity.
of loculated components in post-gadolinium scans ( (e) and (f)). We performed phlebography in this patient through a similar right femoral venous route, with selective catheterization of the right inferior petrosal sinus using a 5 F catheter ( (a)); further catheterization of the cavernous sinus and ophthalmic vein was done with a Progreat microcatheter (Terumo Corporation, Belgium). Multiple distended sacs were demonstrated on selective catheterization, which were communicating with the inferior ophthalmic vein ( (b) and
(c)), with no sac seen to be communicating with the superior ophthalmic vein ( (d)
). This patient has so far not undergone any therapeutic procedure.
This was a case of a 20-year-old female with complaints of proptosis on the left side, especially during forward bending. She had contrast CT of the orbit, which revealed a lobulated tortuous lesion involving the intraconal compartment. We performed venography through the same route ( (a) and
(b)) and demonstrated multiple distended sacs ( (d) to (f)) communicating with the superior ophthalmic vein, with no sacs seen to be communicating with the inferior ophthalmic vein ( (c)
). This patient also has so far not undergone any therapeutic procedure. In all the four cases, we found that injection into the cavernous sinus with a microcatheter did not allow the opacification and demonstration of the varix. Selectiveinjection of the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins was necessary to fill the varix and to demonstrate the communication. Varices were found to communicate with the superior ophthalmic vein in three of our cases and with the inferior ophthalmic vein in one of the cases.
