A 61-year-old man was referred to our otorhinolaryngology department for intermittent right epistaxis for approximately two to three years. Sinonasal endoscopy revealed a right nasal cavity mucosal ulceration, likely responsible for the epistaxis. On the left, edematous intact nasal mucosa was noted between the middle turbinate and nasal septum. Sinus CT demonstrated a 2.5 Â 3.6 Â 3.4 cm expansile left nasal cavity enhancing mass  causing secondary remodeling of the left maxillary antrum, medial orbital wall, and rightward deviation of the nasal septum. Secondary obstruction of the left frontoethmoidal recess resulted in left frontal sinus and anterior ethmoidal air cell opacification by hyperdense secretions that could not be readily differentiated from the adjacent enhancing mass. The mass lesion's most distinctive CT feature was thin internal honeycomb bony trabeculations best seen on bone algorithm reformations , and hemangioma was suggested on the basis of this finding. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was subsequently performed for further lesion delineation, assessment of lesion vascularity and operative planning. While T1-weighted images demonstrated a well-defined, homogeneous, isointense mass inseparable from adjacent obstructed secretions , T2-weighted images allowed the moderately hyperintense mass to be easily differentiated from very hyperintense post-obstructive secretions . On post-gadolinium T1-weighted images, the avidly enhancing mass contained non-enhancing thin, serpiginous, hypointense foci corresponding with bony trabeculations seen on CT, but was lacking internal ''flowvoids'' suggestive for hypervascularity that might alter surgical approach or elicit preoperative embolization . The MRI imaging appearance suggesteda benign pathology, and hemangioma was again proposed as the most likely etiology on the basis of internal bony trabeculations seen at CT, commonly seen with intraosseous hemangiomas elsewhere in the body. The patient underwent uncomplicated, complete endoscopic resection of the mass, which was contiguous with the left middle turbinate and contained internal bony components. The patient did well postoperatively and was free of symptoms at follow-up. Pathology revealed a benign cavernous hemangioma. The specimen demonstrated characteristic large dilated blood-filled venous spaces lined by flattened endothelium with a background fibrotic stroma and interspersed trabecular bone elements . There was no evidence of cytologic atypia or tufting of the vascular endothelial lining to suggest malignancy.
