A 38-year-old man with a history of smoking but without any other significant medical history or previous history of chest pain presented with a loss of consciousness immediately after running a marathon. Ventricular fibrillation was detected with the automated external defibrillator (AED) and after two electrical defibrillation prompts by the surrounding medical staff, the patient's sinus rhythm was restored. He was subsequently transported to the emergency department, and he thereafter maintained consciousness without requiring further cardiopulmonary resuscitation. His electrocardiogram (ECG) on admission demonstrated a normal sinus rhythm without ST and T wave changes. In addition, his echocardiogram demonstrated a normal left ventricular function (the ejection fraction was 68%) with no organic abnormality, such as myocardial hypertrophy or valvular heart disease. A coronary angiogram was performed to diagnose the presence of cardiovascular disease and he had no significant coronary artery stenosis. A spasm provocation test with acetylcholine was performed and the findings were negative. However, the angiogram did show that the RCA originatedPre surgical treatment Post surgical treatment from the left sinus of Valsalva . Coronary computed tomography (CT) angiography revealed an anatomical abnormality where the proximal RCA passed between the ascending aorta and the pulmonary artery trunk ( , B). To identify the relationship between the coronary anomaly and ischemia, exercise stress tests were performed. Exercise treadmill test demonstrated a significant ST segment depression in II, III, aVF . This was further confirmed with exercise stress myocardial perfusion imaging which demonstrated an inferior reversible ischemia . In order to prevent a recurrence of the previous cardiac event and along with the patient's desire to continue his active lifestyle, the patient underwent surgical treatment. The ostium of the RCA was ligated and detached from the left sinus. Then, the ostium of the RCA was successfully reattached to the proximal RCA using an end-to-side aortocoronary anastomosis tothe right sinus of Valsalva. Exercise stress myocardial perfusion imaging was performed one month postoperatively and the findings were negative for myocardial ischemia. One year postoperatively, follow-up coronary CT angiography demonstrated a patent RCA ( , D) and the patient remained asymptomatic during physical activity.
