The Spectrum Health Institutional Review Board has waived approval for this case report, and individual consent from parent/guardian was obtained.
A 3.3-kg term female with prenatally diagnosed HLHS underwent Norwood stage I procedure at seven days of age, with placement of a 3.5-mm modified Blalock-Taussig shunt (MBTS). Intraoperatively she was given cryoprecipitate andfresh frozen plasma (FFP). Prothrombin time (24.7 seconds), international normalized ratio (2.5), activated partial thromboplastin time (>150 seconds), and fibrinogen level (62 mg/dL) were noted. In the immediate postoperative period, she had clinical and echocardiographic evidence of shunt patency and good right ventricular systolic function. On postoperative day 6, the patient had sudden cardiac arrest with profound desaturation and bradycardia requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation including chest compressions. Chest exploration revealed MBTS occlusion. A heparin infusion was initiated. The shunt thrombosis was manually dislodged, and the patient was placed on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), given poor cardiac function. She was decannulated later that same day, given significantly improved cardiac function. Doppler ultrasonography demonstrated nonocclusive thrombi in the right cephalic vein, the left subclavian vein where a central venous line was present, and a partially occlusive thrombus extending from the left iliac to popliteal veins, where a femoral line had been placed just prior to imaging. Laboratory workup revealed homozygous MTHFR C677T. Low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) was initiated and no further thrombotic complication was noted. She was discharged to home on LMWH and aspirin therapy in good condition with close follow-up. A 3.8-kg male with prenatally diagnosed HLHS underwent a Norwood Stage I procedure, with a placement of a 3.5 mm MBTS at five days of age. He received platelets, FFP, and recombinant factor VII intraoperatively, and a heparin infusion was started postoperatively. Prothrombin time (17.3 seconds), international normalized ratio (1.8), activated partial thromboplastin time (56 seconds), and fibrinogen level (218 mg/dL) were noted. His early postoperative course included pulmonary overcirculation requiring shunt restriction, then sudden bradycardic arrest during endotracheal tube suctioning without return of perfusing rhythm requiring four days of ECMO support, and renal failure requiring peritoneal dialysis. After noting the inability to pass a guidewire through a left subclavian central venous line during attempted line change, Doppler ultrasonography confirmed nonocclusive thrombi in the left internal jugular and left subclavian veins. Laboratory testing for hypercoagulability identified homozygous MTHFR C677T and heterozygous prothrombin mutation 22q10. Serum homocysteine level was elevated at 6 mcmol/L (normal 0-5 mcmol/L).den Heijer M, Lewington S, Clarke R. Homocysteine, MTHR and risk of venous thrombosis: a meta-analysis of published epidemiological studies. J Thromb Haemost. 2005;3(2): 292-299.
