A 12-month-old twin Haitian boy born at 35 weeks' gestational age with a history of developmental delay and failure to thrive presents with generalized shaking. The shaking developed yesterday and has been continuous and unrelenting. Aside from the shaking, he has been in his usual state of health, and review of systems has otherwise negative results. He has been followed up by gastroenterologists for the failure to thrive, which has been attributed to oral aversion, gastroesophageal reflux, and milk protein allergy. Since placement of a gastrostomy tube at age 9 months, he has had small increases in his weight, although he remains below the third percentile. His weight is 7.3 kg, length in 70 cm (both below the third percentile), and head circumference is 49.5 cm (>97th percentile). His vital signs are stable. Physical examination reveals an alert, interactive boy with a diffuse tremor. The patient displays significant titubation, upper and lower extremity tremors, and truncal ataxia, with no dysmetria. The diffuse tremor is noted at rest and with volitional movements. The patient displays good tone, 5/5 strength, and 2þ deep tendon reflexes bilaterally. Patchy areas of hypopigmentation and hyperpigmentation are noted on both cheeks. The rest of his physical examination findings are normal. Results of the laboratory evaluation, including complete blood cell count, thyroid function tests, and measurements of serum copper, serum ceruloplasmin, serum organic acids, urine organic acids, and urine catecholamines, are normal. A complete metabolic panel reveals an elevated alkaline phosphatase at 807 U/L (reference range, 25–500 U/L). Results of electroencephalography, magnetic resonance imaging of the brain, and computed tomography of the abdomen are also reported as normal. Additional evaluation reveals the diagnosis.
During the hospital course, daily weights and caloric counts were followed. Despite adequate caloric intake, the patient continued to have inadequate weight gain. Other uncommon causes of tremors and ataxia were considered, including vitamin E deficiency and ataxia-telangiectasia. The patient's vitamin E level was significantly low at 0.9 mg/L (reference range, ). The presence of 2 fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies prompted further workup for malabsorption syndromes. Sweat chloride was measured and found to be 113 mEq/L (113 mmol/L) on the right arm and 112 mEq/L (112 mmol/L) on the left arm (reference range <40 mEq/L [<40 mmol/L]). Confirmatory testing for cystic fibrosis (CF) relies on the presence of 2 genetic mutations. In this patient, 2 mutations in C.2998þ1 G>A and C.744.2A>G were identified, with the latter being an extremely rare mutation that causes CF. With the presence of these 2 disease-causing mutations, CF was confirmed and appropriate treatment regimens initiated.
A 7-year-old, obese, African American girl presents to the emergency department with the chief symptom of yellow eyes for 2 weeks. The patient reports dark yellow urine but denies any nausea, abdominal pain, change in appetite, change in stool color, fever, itching, rash, weight loss, mood change, or recent illness. There is no history of recent drug ingestion, travel, or sick contacts. This is her first ever episode of jaundice. Her family history is noncontributory. On examination, she is alert and oriented. Her heart rate is 74 beats per minute, temperature is 96.6°F (35.9°C), respiratory rate is 24 breaths per minute, blood pressure is 118/69 mm Hg, and oxygen saturation is 100% in room air. Her body mass index is 32. She has yellow discoloration of sclera and the palms. Keyser-Fleischer rings are absent on eye examination. There is no abdominal tenderness or hepatosplenomegaly. The rest of the examination findings are normal. Initial laboratory test results are as follows: total protein, ). The complete blood cell count is normal with normal red cell morphologic findings. The INR is 1.8 (reference range, 0.8–1.2), the prothrombin time is 18.2 seconds (reference range, 9.1–12.0 seconds), and the Vol. 35 No. 12 D E C E M B E R 2 0 1 4activated partial thromboplastin time is 34.5 seconds (reference range, 24–33 seconds). The hepatitis panel (A, B, C) and serologic test results for cytomegalovirus and EpsteinBarr virus infections are negative. The serum acetaminophen level is less than 10 mg/mL (66 mmol/L), and the ethanol level is below detection. Additional laboratory evaluation leads to the diagnosis.
). The LKM-1 level was less than 20 U, the anti–smooth muscle antibody (SMA) level was 22 U (reference range, <20 U), and the antinuclear antibody test result was negative. Because of her elevated SMA levels, elevated serum IgG levels, and abnormal liver function test results, she was prescribed prednisone for presumed autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). Two days later, she was transfused with fresh frozen plasma and given intravenous vitamin K; her INR decreased to 1.4. Ultrasonography revealed heterogenous appearance of liver parenchyma with no focal lesions, splenomegaly, or bile duct dilatation. Percutaneous ultrasonography-guided liver biopsy was then performed and revealed active chronic hepatitis with cholestasis and subacute changes, moderate interface and lobular inflammation, few scattered acidophil bodies, and few foci of probable confluent necrosis. Three weeks after initiation of treatment, her jaundice resolved and her liver enzyme levels and function normalized.
