A 55-year-old hypertensive man developed chest pain while working on an off-shore oil station. Electrocardiogram (ECG) showed acute lateral ST-elevation myocardial infarction. He was treated with tissue plasminogen activator tenecteplase, low molecular weight heparin and aspirin. The ECG changes and chest pain completely resolved. He was transferred to our centre for coronary angiography on the same day. Prior to the procedure he was given ticagrelor 180 mg. Coronary angiogram (
showed severe thrombotic stenosis in a large obtuse marginal branch of the left circumflex artery and diffuse distal left anterior descending artery disease. Heparin 4,000 IU and tirofiban were administered and the stenosis in the obtuse marginal artery was successfully treated with a 4.0x16-mm drug eluting stent. Following the procedure he was treated with aspirin 75 mg od and ticagrelor 90 mg bd. Later that day, he was also started on bisoprolol 1.25 mg od and simvastatin 40 mg od.On day 2, the patient complained of productive cough and had low-grade temperature of 38°C. Cardiovascular and respiratory examination was unremarkable. Chest X-ray showed clear lung fields ( . Blood cultures were negative. An echocardiogram showed mildly impaired LV systolic function with a pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 42 mmHg (reference <36 mmHg). On day 3, he was started on amoxicillin for suspected chest infection but with little symptomatic benefit. Over the following few days, he developed significant hypoxia (PaO 2 was 7.27 kPa on 5 L O 2 (Reference 11–13 kPa on air)), haemoptysis and bilateral lung crepitation. Clarithromycin was added to the treatment regime. Repeat chest X-ray showed bilateral hazy perihilar shadowing with some left basal pleural effusion. A computed tomography (CT) pulmonary angiogram was done on day 5 and this showed bilateral patchy groundglass opacification in central distribution in keeping with inflammatory change and pulmonary haemorrhage ( . A repeat ECG showed rapid rise in central pulmonic pressure to 70 mmHg with no change in LV function. Haemoglobin fell from 153 to 123 g/L (reference >126 g/L). Prothrombin time was marginally prolonged at 13.2 sec (reference range 10–12.6 sec) but activated partial thromboplastin time was normal. C-reactive protein (reference 5 mg/L) increased from 4 mg/L on day 1 to 293 mg/L on day 6. He was reviewed by the respiratory and renal teams. Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, antinuclear and anti-glomerular basement membrane antibodies were negative and complements C3 and C4 were within normal limits. A diagnosis of pneumonitis and secondary pulmonary haemorrhage was made; ticagrelor was suspected to be the cause. Ticagrelor was replaced with clopidogrel 75 mg/day. He was started on prednisolone 60 mg/day at day 5. Over the course of the following few days, the haemoptysis and shortness ofbreath resolved. His clinical improvement was mirrored by improvements in the inflammatory markers ( . Chest X-ray changes progressively resolved with near complete resolution on day 15. He was discharged home on day 15, with a reducing course of prednisolone for one month. After stopping his steroid regimen, he presented with recurrence of haemoptysis. CT chest revealed a mild bronchiolitis pattern and a bronchoscopy was normal. A CT after 6 months was normal. He managed to continue on dual-antiplatelet therapy during this period without interruption. This is reported to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) as a probable adverse effect of ticagrelor.
A couple of days after angioplasty, I developed a bit of a dry cough, suffered loss of voice and hoarseness and started to cough up small amounts of blood in my sputum. My chest felt as though it was rattling and I was bringing up more blood in my sputum and had difficulty breathing. I can also recall the foul taste in my mouth and found I needed to regularly rinse my mouth with antiseptic mouthwash to relive the taste. My partner asked 'what is the taste like' and I recall my reply was simply 'death' as it was hard to describe.
