An 80-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with chest pain that had developed one hour previously. The patient was a non-smoker with a history of diabetes mellitus, although she did not take any medications for the diabetes. The initial vital signs were as follows: blood pressure, 103/63 mmHg; pulse rate, 55 beats/min; respiratory rate, 20 breaths/min; and body temperature, 36.6. The laboratory findings showed a serum creatinine kinase level of 66 IU/L (56-244 IU/L), creatine kinase-myocardial band level of 6.4 ng/mL (0.0-5.0 ng/mL), troponin-I level of 0.1 ng/mL (0.00-0.16 ng/mL) and myoglobin level of 152 ng/mL (0-72 ng/mL). Electrocardiography demonstrated ST segment depression of 2 mm in leads II, III and aVF and 4 mm in leads V1-V4. Emergent portable transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) revealed regional wall motion abnormalities (RWMA) in the entire severely hypokinetic posterolateral wall and hypokinetic mid to basal inferior wall.however, the procedure failed to show the left coronary artery (LCA). Subsequent right coronary angiography revealed a common trunk between the right coronary artery (RCA) and left anterior descending artery (LAD) at the RSV  Although the LAD contained an intermediate lesion, it was not considered to be the culprit lesion. We then performed an additional angiography scan using a pigtail catheter to check the anomalous origin of the LCx. Nevertheless, the orifice of the LCx remained invisible on images of the coronary sinus and ascending aorta. The patient continuously complained of severe chest pain, and the levels of cardiac enzymes increased markedly, up to a serum creatinine kinase level of 5,392 IU/L, creatine kinase-myocardial band level of 597.4 ng/mL and troponin-I level of 181.3 ng/mL (0.00-0.16 ng/mL). We then performed thoracic CT angiography to exclude the possibility of aortic dissection and an anomalous origin of the coronary arteries 10 minutes after coronary angiography. Although there were no abnormal findings for the ascending aorta, the LCx was clearly identified immediately below the common trunk located at the RSV . Immediately after thoracic CT, we located the LCx using a multipurpose catheter, which showed thrombotic total occlusion in the proximal area. After inserting a 0.014-mm guide wire, the thrombus was aspirated using a thrombosuction catheter. Finally, a drug-eluting stent (resolute integrity: 4.0×26 mm) was implanted in the culprit lesion at three hours after symptom onset. As shown in , final coronary angiography showed optimal findings (TIMI 3 flow). In order to ascertain the orifice, distribution and course of the coronary arteries, the patient underwent multislice CT coronary angiography at three weeks after admission. Consequently, the anomalous course of the LCx was found to solely originate from the right coronary sinus with a retroaortic course .
