A 32-year-old woman presented to our hospital 24 h after a scorpion sting over the left foot. Within 18 h of receiving care at a local hospital for symptoms of local site pain, vomiting, loose stools, dyspnoea, and palpitations, she had a cardiac arrest which was successfully resuscitated. She was subsequently intubated and transferred to our hospital on an infusion of dopamine. At presentation to the emergency department, she was conscious (Glasgow coma scale 10T), had sinus tachycardia (heart rate 160/min) and an unrecordable blood pressure. In the next 5 h she had four cardiac arrests (three pulseless ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation episodes and one asystole) that were successfully resuscitated within 5–15 min. On return of spontaneous circulation, therapeutic hypothermia (536 C) was initiated and maintained for 24 h to minimise secondary brain injury. During this period, she required high doses of vasopressor and inotropic therapy (Adrenaline 0.4 mcg/kg/min, Noradrenaline 0.4 mcg/kg/min, Dobutamine 2.5 mcg/kg/min, and Vasopressin at 0.06 U/min) to achieve a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of more than 65 mmHg. In view of the possibility of 'catecholamine storm', prazosin was initiated cautiously at 0.25 mg fourhourly through the nasogastric tube. An echocardiogram (ECHO) showed low ejection fraction (EF) of 10%  and hence the patient was also digitalised (initial dose of 0.5 mg intravenously, followed by two further doses of 0.25 mg, 6 h apart). However, haemodynamic status continued to worsenIn view of persistent global systolic dysfunction on Day 4, noradrenaline infusion was decreased to 0.25 mcg/kg/min and dobutamine was increased to 10 mcg/kg/min in order to improve myocardial contractility and tissue perfusion. During this period, systolic pressure remained at 80 mmHg with decrease in urine output to515 ml/h for 4 h. Given the refractoriness of the shock, it was decided to support additionally with IABP. This was inserted on the same day (Day 4). Following initiation of IABP, blood pressure improved and in the next hour urine output improved from 15 ml/h in the previous 4 h to 200 ml; noradrenaline was weaned over 5 h. Over the next 24 h, adrenaline was weaned and the EF and respiratory status improved . IABP was subsequently weaned and removed after 36 h. Dobutamine was changed to milrinone in view of suspected tachyphylaxis. On Day 7, the EF was 58%. She was extubated on Day 8 to non-invasive ventilation (NIV) which was tapered over the next 3 d. Milrinone was tapered and cardiac function was optimised with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and spironolactone. Post-extubation, the patient had features of hypoxic encephalopathy and a flail chest due to chest compressions. The sensorium gradually improved and at the time of discharge (Day 30) the patient was independent for activities of daily living.
