A 69-year-old woman with hepatic aneurysms and hepatic arteriovenous fistulae (AVFs) was admitted to our hospital for evaluation of perioperative cardiac risks prior to a hepatectomy and resection of hepatic artery aneurysms (Figures 1A, B). These operations were recommended to reduce the risk of aneurysmal rupture because one of the two hepatic aneurysms had rapidly expanded during the previous year (from 34 mm to 37 mm) . The patient had noticed shortness of breath 8 years prior, and her symptoms had not changed. The cardiovascular risk factors were hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. An ejection systolic murmur was detected during physical examination. Chest X-rays showed mild cardiomegaly with a cardiothoracic ratio of 56%. Electrocardiography at rest showed a sinus rhythm (59 bpm/minute) with left ventricular high voltage and deep T wave inversions (> 0.2 mV) in leads I/aVL and ST segment depression in leads V4-6. Laboratory blood tests showed hyperlipidemia and mild elevated brain natriuretic peptide serum levels (135 mg/dL). Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a left coronary artery aneurysm and myocardial hypertrophy from the anterior wall to the apical wall without an intra-left ventricular pressure gradient. The maximal left ventricular wall thickness was 16 mm at the apical portion . The left ventricular cavity size and systolic function were normal (left ventricular ejection fraction: 62%). A computed tomography scan of the coronary artery was performed to further evaluate the coronary aneurysm. It showed a markedly dilated (diameter 20 × 18 mm) and significantly tortuous left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery (
dial ischemia, but the LGE pattern was not typical of ischemia. In some cases, coronary artery-LV fistulae can be candidates for surgery. However, the diffuse and complex structures of coronary-LV fistulae make resection very risky. Consequently, surgical ligation and catheter embolization were avoided. The left-lobe hepatectomy and aneurysm excision were successful. The patient was discharged on the 11th postoperative day without complications.
