A 65-year-old man was admitted with effort-related chest discomfort. He and his two siblings had a history of PV. Echocardiography showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of 72% with normal wall motion. Coronary angiography demonstrated a normal left main trunk with 99% proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD) stenosis, 75% mid-LAD stenosis, and 90% obtuse marginal branch stenosis . Preoperative laboratory data revealed a white blood cell count of 5000/mL, hemoglobin level of 20.9 g dL À1 , hematocrit of 59.3%, and platelet count of 13.0 Â 10 4 /mL. Erythropoietin (17.8 mU mL À1 ) and vitamin B12 (519 pg mL À1 ) levels were normal. We planned CABG for the LAD and obtuse marginal branch stenosis, using bilateral internal thoracic arteries (ITA). The patient was maintained on oral aspirin (100 mg day À1 ) until the day before surgery, and heparin infusion (15,000 U day À1 ) until the morning of surgery, at which time he had an activated partial thromboplastin time of 53 s (normal 26 s). Surgery was performed through a median sternotomy. Just after starting surgery, phlebotomy and storage for transfusion was performed until the hematocrit reached 45%. The bilateral ITA were harvested (completely skeletonized) with an ultrasonic scalpel and preserved in gauze with papaverine to avoid spasm. After full heparinization, we prepared the graft for anastomosis. Because the flow in the left ITA was unsatisfactory (postoperative evaluation revealed that the left ITA was occluded by a thrombus), we abandoned the graft and harvested a saphenous vein. Under cardiopulmonary bypass, the patient underwent CABG (right ITA to distal LAD, and aortocoronary bypass to the obtuse marginalCorresponding author: Hiroaki Osada, MD, Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Mitsubishi Kyoto Hospital, 1 Katsuragoshomachi, Nishikyo-ku, Kyoto 615-8087, Japan. Email: osahiro@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp branch with a saphenous vein graft). Activated clotting time was maintained above 800 s during cardiopulmonary bypass. The patient was smoothly weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass with no abnormal wall motion. His postoperative hemoglobin level was 13.8 g dL À1. We started a heparin infusion upon arrival in the intensive care unit. On the morning of postoperative day 1, electrocardiography showed ST-segment elevation in leads V2–V5 and a raised creatine kinase MB level (381 IU L À1 ). Echocardiography demonstrated left ventricular anteroseptal wall akinesis. Emergency coronary angiography revealed severe flow disturbance in the native LAD , and thrombotic stenosis in the mid-right ITA graft and anastomosis site . We performed a percutaneous coronary intervention for the proximal LAD and midLAD stenosis with Biolimus-eluting Nobori stents (Terumo, Tokyo, Japan), 3.5 Â 18, 3.0 Â 24.0, and 2.5 Â 24.0 mm, respectively. The left ventricular anteroseptal wall motion improved and normalized. The patient was discharged with no evidence of heart failure after rehabilitation on postoperative day 19, with dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin 100 mg and clopidogrel 75 mg daily) and warfarin (international normalized ratio approximately 2.5).
