A 41-year-old Indian man presented with sudden onscet of chest pain in February 2011 and was diagnosed with an anterolateral myocardial infarction (MI); prior to the event, he was completely asymptomatic. The coronary angiogram revealed an occluded ostial and proximal left anterior descending (LAD) artery. After a failed percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), he underwent emergency coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) involving the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) to the LAD. Post-operatively he developed progressively worsening symptoms of right heart failure with increasing abdominal distension and lower limb swelling. Clinically, the patient was in NYHA class 4 heart failure. The 2D echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 10% and a pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) of 40 mmHg. He was admitted multiple times for the treatment of his heart failure, which was recalcitrant to diuretic therapy. He was eventually offered a heart-lung transplant to alleviate his symptoms. In October 2011, he was admitted to another institution for further re-evaluation of his symptoms. A repeat 2D echocardiogram revealed severe biventricular dysfunction with a left ventricular ejection fraction(LVEF) of 12%, a PASP of 38 mmHg as well as severe tricuspid regurgitation (TR). There was a thinned out ventricular septum with a possible left ventricular (LV) apical aneurysm. Multiple attempts to further evaluate the apical aneurysm or additional intracardiac lesions with a cardiac MRI failed, as the patient was unable to lie supine because of his severe dyspnoea. A decision was made to insert a peritoneal dialysis catheter to alleviate his abdominal distension. He subsequently tolerated an MRI scan, which revealed near transmural myocardial infarction involving mainly the LAD and left circumflex (LCx) territories; the segments supplied by the right coronary artery (RCA) were viable. The right atrium and ventricle were grossly dilated, with moderate to severe right ventricular systolic dysfunction. A sinus venosus atrial septal defect with right-sided partial anomalous pulmonary venous drainage (PAPVD) was noted. There was left to right shunting (QPQS 4.04) with moderate to severe tricuspid regurgitation; no LV apical aneurysm was detected . A redo-median sternotomy was performed, followed by clearing of dense adhesions. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was commenced with bicaval venous cannulation (high SVC cannula) and aortic cannulation in the ascending aorta. A LV vent was inserted through the LA. The SVC and IVC were snared followed by opening of the right atrium (RA). Intra-operative findings were that of a high sinus venosus ASD with PAPVD (RSPV X 2). The sinus venosus ASD was repaired with an autologous pericardial patch and the PAPVD was re-routed to the LA with continuous non-absorbable sutures. As the PA pressure was low, a De Vega annuloplasty of the triuspid valve was performed with non-absorbable pledgeted sutures. The heart was oedematous after weaning from CPB. The sternotomy wound was left open and was closed on the second post-operative day. A post-operative echo revealed a visual EF of 30%, a PASP of 59 and moderate tricuspid regurgitation with no residual shunt. He developed a right-sided pleural effusion on post-op day 6 for which a pigtail catheter was inserted. The pleural effusion resolve and the post-operative period was otherwise unremarkable. He was discharged on post-operative day 19 with oral diuretics. On follow-up at 1 month post-operatively, the patient's symptoms had resolved and his clinical status corresponded to NYHA class 1–2.
