A man aged 59 years who was a current smoker with no prior cardiovascular history presented with an anterior ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Diagnostic emergency coronary angiography showed a totally occluded left anterior descending artery (LAD). After thrombus aspiration and predilatation with two Sprinter semi-compliant balloons (2.0920 mm at 14 atm and 2.5920 mm at 20 atm), two overlapping BVSs (3.0918 mm at 16 atm and 2.5928 mm at 16 atm) were implanted in the proximal and middle LAD ( and 1B). A few hours later, probably due to large infarct size and poor residual left ventricular function, the patient developed cardiogenic shock; despite optimal hemodynamic support, with a 2.5-L Impella device (Abiomed), the patient died 3 days after scaffold implantation. Postmortem angiography showed no occlusion of the LAD and a patent scaffold. Histology of the scaffolded segment demonstrated an atherosclerotic coronary artery wall with a unilateral compressed intimal fibrotic plaque. The scaffold struts were identifiable by their impression of the lamina interna and by their contour in the intraluminal aggregate of blood cells. There was no evidence of scaffold thrombosis. Some of the struts, especially the struts located at the plaquefree wall, were covered by a thin layer of fibrin and platelets admixed with granulocytes and a few multinucleated giant cells (19% of the struts had giant cells adjacent) ( and 1D).
A man aged 48 years with a history of hypertension presented with ST-segment elevation in the precordial leads. Diagnostic emergency coronary angiography showed significant stenosis of the proximal left circumflex and the first obtuse marginal branch. The proximal LAD was suspected for a plaque rupture; after thrombus aspiration and predilatation with a 3.0915mm Sprinter semi-compliant balloon at 10 atm, a BVS (3.5912 mm at 14 atm) was implanted in the proximal LAD. The procedure was finalized with postdilatation using a 3.599 mm Sprinter non-compliant balloon at 16 atm . The patient was scheduled to undergo complete revascularization within 6 weeks after discharge; however, the patient presented 8 days later at our hospital in the setting of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Despite optimal cardiopulmonary resuscitation for >1.5 hours, the patient died. Postmortem angiography showed a patent scaffold, and macroscopic inspection of the LAD showed no thrombus. Histological examination of the coronary artery at the scaffolded segment showed a unilateral lipid-rich atherosclerotic plaque. The contours of the scaffold were readily visible by their impression in the internal elastic lamina of the plaque-free wall. The struts were (partially) covered by a small layer of fibrin and platelets, with some lytic/condensed changes. The fibrin and platelet clot was admixed with mononuclear inflammatory cells and low numbers of multinuclear foreign body giant cells. These giant cells were found adjacent to 68% of the BVS struts ( and 2D).
A man aged 70 years with a history of diabetes mellitus, peripheral artery disease, and transient ischemic attacks was referred to our hospital to undergo percutaneous coronary intervention of the left circumflex due to stable angina pectoris. The lesion was predilated with a TREK semicompliant balloon (3.0915 mm at 10 atm); thereafter, a 3.5928-mm BVS was implanted at 12 atm followed by postdilatation with a 3.5915-mm TREK non-compliant balloon at 16 atm ( and 3B). At 3 months after implantation, the patient presented at our center with a scaffold thrombosis after stopping his dual antiplatelet therapy due to gastrointestinal bleeding. After multiple balloon dilatation, Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction grade 3 flow returned, and optical coherence tomography imaging confirmed complete expansion and apposition of the scaffold ( and 3D). The patient then developed (cardiogenic) shock, and emergency angiography showed a patent scaffold. Despite optimal medical hemodynamic support, the patient died in the intensive care unit. Histology of the scaffolded segment of the coronary artery showed a unilateral lipid-rich plaque with calcifications. Some of the scaffold struts, especially those at the plaque-free wall, were covered with a thin layer of multilayered smooth muscle cells . Adjacent to the struts located at the plaquefree wall, there was condensed fibrin, multinuclear foreign body giant cells (75% of the struts) and a few mononuclear inflammatory cells . The stent struts at the side of the vessel wall with the plaque were surrounded by fibrin and blood cells that was admixed with a massive infiltrate of neutrophils and that also infiltrated the intima and media ( and 3I). Full-body autopsy further identifiedinfectious pneumonia causing severe sepsis as the cause of death; therefore, the massive infiltration of neutrophils in the stented coronary artery was interpreted as a local septic complication, likely related to the presence of foreign body material.
A man aged 81 years with a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and multiple transient ischemic attacks was admitted at our hospital with unstable angina pectoris and underwent emergency percutaneous coronary intervention. Angiography showed a significant lesion (fractional flow reserve of 0.78) in the LAD, which was initially predilated with a semi-compliant balloon (2.5915 mm at 10 atm), and a 3.0918-mm Absorb BVS was implanted at 12 atm ( and 4B). At 3 months after implantation, the patient presented at our center with scaffold thrombosis after stopping his dual antiplatelet therapy. The patient was treated initially with multiple balloon dilatations, but due to recurrent angina, the patient underwent a second percutaneous coronary intervention with implantation of 2 everolimus-eluting Xience DESs (Abbott Vascular) within the previously implanted scaffold ( and 4D). At 1 year after the initial procedure, the patient developed an oropharynx carcinoma and died 6 months later of respiratory failure due to aspiration pneumonia. Histology of the scaffolded segment of the coronary artery showed a unilateral lipid-rich atherosclerotic plaque with calcification. The intimal layer of the vessel contained a double row of stents (DES and BVS). The DES struts were smaller and rounder and sometimes contained iron mesh. All BVS struts were totally surrounded by intima with multilayered smooth muscle cells . A few multinuclear foreign body giant cells and macrophages were seen adjacent to 67% of the struts. No T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes, or eosinophilic granulocytes were observed,) was implanted in the proximal LAD (A and B). At 8 days after scaffold implantation, the patient presented at our hospital in the setting of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest and died despite optimal cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Hematoxylin and eosin staining demonstrates the histological contours of the scaffold, readily visible by their impression in the lamina interna of the plaque free wall. *Histological contours of the scaffold (C). The struts are (partially) covered by a small layer of fibrin and platelets (black arrow). The fibrin and platelet clot is admixed with mononuclear inflammatory cells and multiple multinuclear foreign body giant cells (D). No material positive for Alcian blue staining infiltrated the scaffold strut (E). LAD, left anterior descending artery.indicating no active immune response. Some of the BVS struts showed infiltration with fibrillary eosinophilic material  that also stained with Alcian blue , indicating degenerative change. The intraluminal site of the coronary artery was lined by a continuous layer of endothelium .
