A 77-year-old woman presented with retrosternal chest pain of 3-h duration. Her electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevation in inferior leads II, III, and aVF, compatible with an inferior AMI. In the absence of contraindications, she was administered thrombolysis with reteplase, with clinical and electrocardiographic evidence of reperfusion. After 4 days, she developed pleuritic-type chest pain and shortness of breath. On examination, her systolic blood pressure was 90 mmHg and her pulse was 96 beatsÁmin À1 and regular. A new grade 2/6 parasternal holosystolic murmur was heard on auscultation. Echocardiography revealed a posteroinferior ventricular septal defect and a communicating posterior ventricular free-wall rupture with pseudoaneurysm formation; transesophageal echocardiography confirmed the posteroinferior ventricular septal defect with a communicating 15 Â 20mm posterior left ventricular free wall pseudoaneurysm . Urgent coronary angiography showed total occlusion of the right coronary artery and significant stenosis in the proximal segments of the obtuse marginal branches of the left circumflex artery. The patient was transferred to our institution and treated with intravenous diuretics. An intraaortic balloon pump was inserted to stabilize her condition. She underwent urgent repair and double bypass grafting (saphenous vein grafts to the obtuse marginal branches). The chest was opened with a midline sternotomy, and she was placed on bypass. A posterior left ventricular freewall pseudoaneurysm was found, with blood in the pericardium . A recently infarcted area was identified over the right ventricle close to the posterior descending artery territory. The aneurysm was incised, and a septal defect in the inferior posterior part of the interventricular septum was visualized through the opened aneurysm . The ventricularseptal defect and the pseudoaneurysm were repaired using the two-patches onlay technique . The patient was weaned successfully from cardiopulmonary bypass. Transesophageal echocardiography showed no residual septal defect. She was extubated on postoperative day 2 and discharged on day 12. Six months later, she had no symptoms and no evidence of residual or recurrent septal defect.
