A 49-year-old Japanese man complaining of chest pain was taken by ambulance to our hospital. His medical history included surgery for inguinal hernia at 45 years of age. He also had a history of smoking with a Brinkman index score of 300. Electrocardiography showed ST elevation in leads V2-5. Cardiac biomarkers were also elevated as following: high sensitive Troponin I, 0.067 ng/ml (standard value: 0.00–0.03 ng/ml). Based on these findings, we diagnosed STEMI, and performed emergent coronary angiography, which showed occlusion of the left anterior descending artery ( , b). Thus, we performed emergent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) . After surgery, the patient was moved to the intensive care unit with an indwelling bladder catheter, where he recovered without any acute complications. Three days after PCI, the patient developed fever and shaking chills. He had a body temperature of 39.2 °C, blood pressure of 103/68 mmHg, regular pulse rate of 103 beats/min, respiratory rate of 18 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation of 97 % (without oxygen administration). His heart and breath sounds were normal, and his abdomen was soft and flat with no tenderness. There was no skin rash, and joint findings were normal. Laboratory data at onset of fever and shaking chills are shown in . Notably, he had a white blood cell count of 13,760 cells/mm 3 , hemoglobin level of 12.4 g/dL, and C-reactive protein level of 8.29 mg/dL. Cardiac enzymes were still elevated due to the STEMI, but were returning toward normal. Chest radiography showed no infiltrative shadows . Urinary Gram staining revealed middlesized gram-negative rods that were phagocytized by leukocytes. We initially diagnosed catheter-associated UTI. Blood and urine cultures were performed, his indwelling bladder catheter was removed, and he was initially administered intravenous (IV) cefmetazole (1 g every 8 h). The fever was brought down temporarily, but fever developed again at 4 days after starting the antimicrobial agent. In addition, micturition and pain while urinating persisted. Blood and urine cultures were both positive for Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We suspected abscess formation, and performed contrast-enhanced computed tomography, which showed multiple large abscesses in his prostate . After consulting a urology specialist about drainage or surgical treatment, we decided to treat with antimicrobial agents alone because the patient was receiving dual-antiplatelet therapy and discontinuation is very high risk for in-stent thrombosis. We administered IV meropenem (1 g every 12 h) and amikacin (200 mg every 12 h) for 2 days, and then changed to levofloxacin (750 mg per day) based on drug sensitivity. Blood cultures were negative on the 10th dayafter onset of fever and shaking chills, while contrastenhanced computed tomography showed the abscess was decreasing on the 17th day. The patient was discharged on the 27th day of hospitalization. He had in total 6 weeks of antimicrobial therapy, and showed remarkable recovery. We continue to see this patient regularly at our clinic, and he has been in good health for more than 3 years.
