Brief clinical courses of two patients with refractory CS are summarized below.
A 40-year-old woman presented with an acute myocardial infarction from a 90% thrombotic occlusion of her left main coronary artery. The patient underwent a thrombectomy and placement of a drug-eluting stent (DES) of the culprit vessel. The rest of her coronary arteries were patent. Her LV end diastolic pressure was 40 mmHg. She had ventricular tachycardic arrest which required intubation, inotropic support and an intraaortic balloon pump (IABP). She was profoundly acidotic (pH of 7.1) with a lactic acid (LA) of 2.5 mg/dL. Her peak cardiac troponin I was measured at 390 ng/L. Other laboratory abnormalities included an elevated serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) of 1200 mg/dL and a serum creatinine (Cr) of 1.7 mg/dL. Right heart catheterization (RHC) revealed a central venous pressure (CVP) of 15 mmHg, a pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) of 51/30 (37) mmHg and a cardiac index (CI) of 1.9 L/min/m 2. Her blood cultures were positive for Staphylococcus aureus. A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) indicated an ejection fraction (EF) of less than 10%, mild to moderate right ventricular (RV) dysfunction and multiple left ventricular (LV) apical thrombi . Multiple right upper extremity deep venous thrombi (DVT) were detected by screening ultrasonography. In light of a refractory CS, worsening pulmonary condition and sepsis, a decision was made to urgently implant a CentriMag® left ventricular assist device (LVAD) as a bridge to decision. However, intraoperatively, the patient demonstrated a need for RV support, leading to RA cannulation and ECMO integration into the circuit. Although her post-CentriMag® hypercoagulable work-up was negative for platelet factor 4 (pf4) antibody enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay testing for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), repeat testing revealed a positive assay with an elevated optical density of 2.6. Serotonin release assay confirmed the diagnosis. The second patient was a 56-year-old man with cardiogenic shock due to non-ischemic cardiomyopathy with cardioversion refractory atrial fibrillation (AF). The patient had presented with shortness of breath and AF with a rapid ventricular response. He became profoundly tachypneic and hypotensive, leading to intubation. Laboratory parameters revealed a metabolic acidosis with a LA of 7.6 mg/dL. RHC demonstrated a CVP of 16mmHg, a PAP of 44/6 (22) mmHg and a CI of 2.1 L/min/m 2. The patient had a shock liver with a peak AST of 14000 mg/dL and an alanine transaminase (ALT) of 5800 mg/dL. His renal function, which was normal at baseline, was depressed with a Cr of 3.65 mg/dL. A coronary angiogram was negative for any significant coronary disease. Echocardiography showed an EF of less than 20%, with an LV apical thrombus , left atrial appendage (LAA) thrombus, and a right atrial appendage (RAA) thrombus. Milrinone and dobutamine were initiated for inotropic support. His hypercoagulable work-up was negative for any abnormalities. After failing a course of supportive therapy with inotropes and pressors, and concerns about underlying RV dysfunction in addition to worsening LV function, biventricular MCS as a bridge to recovery was instituted.
