However, 2 days after his follow-up pediatric visit and 14 days since the onset of his illness, symptoms of his prodromal illness recurred which included fussiness and sleeping more than usual followed by lowgrade intermittent fevers. His symptoms progressed over the next day to include increased irritability, increased stool output, and high-grade fevers to 39.8°C (103.7°F) not responding to antipyretics, so the patient was readmitted to the hospital 7 days after being discharged from his initial hospital stay, which equated to 16 days since his initial symptom onset. On readmission, he had leukocytosis (WBC 16.5 k/uL, 56% neutrophils), thrombocytosis (849 k/uL), transaminitis (aspartate transaminase 179 U/L), and hyponatremia (Na 131 mmol/L). A complete abdominal ultrasound (not done on before admission) was obtained that was negative for any significant abnormality. Given the clinical presentation with protracted fever and the diagnostic tests results, KD was suspected. His calculated Kobayashi risk score was 7 (highrisk patient score is $5). An echocardiogram revealed multiple saccular (largest 2.8 3 3.5 mm) and fusiform coronary aneurysms (
, supporting the diagnosis of incomplete KD.
Conscious of the limited window of time available to effectively treat our patient, set in a point in time during the subacute stage of active KD, we took a proactive approach patterning treatment after the intervention studied in the RAISE trial with a tapering prednisone course (2 mg/kg/day weaned by 0.5 mg/kg/dose weekly) in addition to the standard regimen of IVIG and ASA. Question Is there evidence available for improved efficacy of supplemental steroid use versus traditional treatment of atypical KD in high-risk patients?
During readmission, the patient remained clinically stable on the regular nursing floor, and at no point did his care require escalation. Patient was discharged from the hospital in stable condition after 8 days of inpatient treatment. No adverse events occurred as a result of the therapeutic intervention. Follow-up echocardiograms performed 2, 6, and 30 weeks after treatment induction have shown complete resolution of coronary artery aneurysms (
.
