A 68-year old woman was admitted to our hospital after the onset of chest pain and dyspnoea at rest. Twenty-five years earlier, the patient underwent surgical repair of an isthmic aortic coarctation by resection and end-to-end anastomosis through a left thoracotomy at another hospital. On admission, chest and heart examination were normal. Systolic/diastolic blood pressure was 150/80 mmHg and heart rate was 75 beats/min. Baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) showed left ventricular hypertrophy with anterior Q waves. Echocardiogram showed a hypertrophic left ventricle, normal ejection fraction and a limited area of hypokinesia at the apex. A rest–stress myocardial perfusion scintigraphy was performed, revealing inducible ischaemia in the antero-lateral wall and confirming necrotic areas on the mid-portion and apical septum. Coronary angiogram showed severe atherosclerotic stenosis in the left anterior descending (LAD) and in the right coronary artery. Surgical revascularization was scheduled. At surgery, both left and right ITAs were dissected in a skeletonized and semi-skeletonized fashion, respectively. As expected, they were dilated, measuring 5 and 4.5 mm in diameter, respectively . The two arteries were carefully evaluated: blood flow was excellent in both of them and no signs of calcification were found. The in situ left internal thoracic artery (LITA) was used to graft the LAD and the in situ right internal thoracic artery (RITA) was used to graft the right coronary. Intraoperative flowmetry revealed normal function of both grafts.The postoperative course was uneventful. Blood pressure control was troublesome, requiring the concurrent administration of β-blockers, calcium channel blockers, α 1-receptor antagonists and angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors. Pre-discharge ECG and echocardiogram were normal. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 8, in good condition. Histopathological evaluation of the discarded ITA segments using haematoxylin–eosin and Masson trichrome staining revealed normal medial and adventitial layers and a markedly thickened endothelium. There was no cellular disarray, focal atherosclerosis or hyperplastic degeneration. Immunostaining with anti-factor VIII and anti-endothelial nitric oxide synthase type III (anti-eNOS) antibodies was performed according to described methods in order to evaluate endothelial integrity and vascular wall function. Anti-factor VIII reaction revealed an intact endothelial layer and anti-eNOS immunostaining demonstrated normal expression of eNOS in the endothelium and in the media . An angiographic control performed for study purposes 2 months after the operation showed that both the LITA and RITA grafts were patent, although they had minor luminal irregularities .
