A 48-year-old diabetic female patient was admitted to the hospital with chest pain and her effort test was positive. Coronary angiography demonstrated atherosclerotic lesions in left anterior descending artery (LAD) and diagonal branch. Coronary artery bypass grafting was recommended to these vessels via left internal thoracic artery (LITA) sequentially. Sternal cleft could not be detected in preoperative physical examination and also it was not suspected on chest X-ray . After draping at the start of the operation but before sternotomy, it was observed that the sternum was shorter than expected by palpation. After sternotomy, the sternum was measured as 6 cm long . There was only corpus sterni without the manubrium and xiphoid processes. Two separate bones like antennae or horns were present on the upper part of the hypoplastic sternum in place of a manubrium. These two separate bones supported the clavicles. The margins of the hypoplastic sternum constituted the articulations with five pairs of ribs and the other two pairs articulated with the horns . The LITA was harvested without any problem and its length was normal. The course of the LITA was lateral to the left horn and was then situated normally with respect to the hypoplastic sternum. The quality and blood flow capacity of LITA were sufficient for coronary bypass. The left arm was prepared for radial artery harvest just in case of structural LITA failure. Offpump sequential anastomosis of LITA to diagonal and LAD arteries was performed uneventfully. Pericardium was closed over the ascending aorta. Sternal closure was completed by two figure-of-eight sutures of stainless steel wire. Muscular and fasciocutaneous flaps over the cleft were used to complete the wound closure. There was no need to correct the sternal cleft in order to protect mediastinal structures. The patient stayed 22 hours in the intensive care unit. The sternum was protected against dehiscence by the help of a corset following extubation of the trachea, and the patient was discharged on the fourth day after operation following an uncomplicated course. She was in good condition at follow-up visits.
