In November 2012, a 68-year old man was referred to an intensive cardiological care unit for recurrence of ventricular tachycardia. He had a history of idiopathic hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with subaortic stenosis known since 1995. A defibrillator was implanted in 2004 for ventricular tachycardia, and a coronary angiography showed mild right coronary artery enlargement during the same year. No argument for a history of Kawasaki disease was found. The patient underwent a new coronary angiography shortly after admission , revealing two large aneurysms of the mid-right coronary artery with mild dysplasia of the distal segment, and a possible side branch from the second aneurysm. Other coronary segments were considered normal. On transthoracic echocardiography, a mass adjacent to the right atrioventricular groove was visible with a diameter of 3.6 cm. Pulsed-waved Doppler revealed diastolic flow within the mass. The inferior wall of the left ventricle was mildly hypokinetic. The multislice computed tomography (MSCT) study demonstrated marked underestimation of the second aneurysm by invasive angiography because of the large thrombus: the first aneurysm was 15 × 15 × 17 mm, followed by a short apparently healthy segment; the second aneurysm was 42 × 41 × 53 mm ( C and E). There was no side branch from the second aneurysm, but there was a blind recess inside the thrombus filling. The patient was referred for cardiac surgery. The right mammary artery was used as a bypass graft to the distal segment of thecoronary artery. Perioperative findings confirmed the large thrombus filling of the coronary aneurysms seen on CT (
, which was removed before proximal and distal ligation. During the early postoperative follow-up, the patient presented with a tamponade that required surgical drainage. The postoperative CT confirmed patency of the bypass graft and the vascular exclusion of the aneurysm , with no opacification . No recurrence of ventricular arrhythmia occurred after surgery, with a followup of 13 months. On pathological examination, the aneurysm wall comprised a sclerotic shell. The luminal side was lined by fibrin.
