A 28-year-old previously healthy woman was brought to the hospital after out-of-hospital resuscitated cardiac arrest attributable to ventricular fibrillation. On the evening of presentation, she was found unconscious at home by family members. Bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was immediately initiated. The patient was defibrillated in the field by emergency medical response providers with return of spontaneous circulation. She aspirated during intubation in the field, and arrived to the hospital in shock, with blood pressure 88/71 mm Hg on norepinephrine 20 μg/min and vasopressin 0.04 U/min. She did not have purposeful movements, and therapeutic hypothermia was initiated in the Emergency Department. She had a metabolic acidosis and concomitant type I acute respiratory failure, with PaO 2 66 mm Hg on volume-cycled assist/control mode with tidal volumes of 400 cc, FiO 2 1.0, positive end-expiratory pressure 10 cm H 2 O, and a respiratory rate of 26 breaths/min. Her ECG did not demonstrate stigmata of ischemia or infarction. However, a type I Brugada pattern was noted in leads V1 and V2 before cooling. Over the ensuing several hours, vasopressor requirements escalated. A SwanGanz catheter demonstrated severely depressed cardiac index and elevated pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. She remained severely hypoxic despite maximal ventilator support. Chest x-ray showed diffuse bilateral pulmonary infiltrates, consistent with severe aspiration pneumonitis. PaO 2 decreased to 49 mm Hg despite increased positive end-expiratory pressure and chemical paralysis, meeting Berlin criteria for severe acute respiratory distress syndrome. 1 Options for percutaneous hemodynamic support were considered (including extracorporeal membrane oxygenation or percutaneous ventricular assist device , such as Impella and TandemHeart), and the patient was placed on veno-arterial ECMO (VA ECMO) for both hemodynamic and respiratory rescue 6 hours after presentation. Cardiopulmonary bypass was first developed in 1954 to facilitate openheart surgery and used successfully 1 year later. 2,3 Although substantially different from early cardiopulmonary bypass systems, ECMO evolved from cardiopulmonary bypass and provides prolonged cardiopulmonary support outside of the operating suite. With increasing technological advances and safety, the uses of ECMO have expanded, with increasing interest as combined shortterm circulatory and respiratory support in patients with cardiogenic shock. 4 Although potentially life-saving, ECMO is invasive, complex, resource intensive, and can be associated with serious complications. This Clinician Update will introduce ECMO technology, review indications and contraindications, discuss management, including maintaining and weaning support, and underscore potential complications.Successful implementation and monitoring of ECMO require a welltrained, multidisciplinary team with expertise in this technology, typically with specialists from cardiothoracic surgery, cardiology, perfusion, intensive care medicine, anesthesiology, and respiratory care. The basic ECMO circuit comprises vascular cannulas, a pump, an external membrane oxygenator, and a blood warmer (
. The circuit can be configured with either 2 venous cannulas (venovenous ECMO), or with both a venous and an arterial cannula (VA ECMO). In VV ECMO, blood is typically drained from the body via an inflow (in to the pump/ oxygenator) cannula in the vena cava and returned via an outflow cannula in close proximity to the right atrium. VV ECMO is dependent on patients' intrinsic cardiac output (CO) and hemodynamics for support, and as such, its application is for isolated respiratory failure. This modality was used successfully in severe cases of respiratory failure during the H1n1 influenza A pandemic. 5 In VA ECMO, blood is extracted from a venous inflow cannula in the vena cava and returned to the arterial system via an outflow cannula, thus bypassing the heart and lungs. VA ECMO is not dependent on native CO, and is therefore used in patients with cardiogenic shock. Cannulation for VA ECMO can be central or peripheral. In central cannulation, a venous cannula is implanted in the right atrium and an arterial cannula is implanted in the ascending aorta. Peripheral cannulation is via the femoral or internal jugular vein and the femoral or axillary artery. If femoral artery cannulation is chosen, flow from the arterial cannula is required to perfuse extracorporeally oxygenated blood retrograde up the descending aorta and into the ascending aorta to assure delivery to the coronary arteries and cerebral great vessels. If the left ventricular CO is negligible, the required extracorporeal flow will be small. However, as native cardiac function recovers and native cardiac ejection increases, anterograde aortic flow will compete with retrograde flow from the femoral cannula, and a mixing zone of anterograde deoxygenated (in patients with respiratory failure) and retrograde oxygenated blood flow will occur. The flow required to assure that this mixing zone remains in the ascending aorta will increase as native CO increases. Monitoring pulse oxygen saturation from the right upper extremity or arterial blood gases from the right radial artery will inform the critical care team whether ECMO is providing adequate cerebral (although not necessarily cardiac) oxygenation. Monitoring cerebral oximetry can also be reassuring. Given the need for large femoral arterial cannulas (size
