A 65-year-old Japanese man presented to our emergency department with a chief complaint of chest pain, which had started suddenly one hour before and radiated to the shoulders. He reported that arrhythmia had once been identified in an annual health checkup but that it had not been further evaluated. He had a brother who had previously undergone coronary angiography (CAG). He was a current smoker and smoked 10-15 cigarettes a day. At presentation, his blood pressure was 96/71 mmHg. His pulse rate was 74 bpm and was regular in rhythm. With the exception of cold extremities, his physical examinations were unremarkable. An electrocardiogram showed STsegment elevations and hyper acute T waves in leads V1-V5 and a bedside echocardiogram showed abnormal wall motions in the anterior wall and the apex of the heart. A diagnosis of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction was made and he was admitted to hospital. The patient's laboratory data showed the following: white blood cell count 6.Emergent CAG was performed, which revealed the occlusion of the #6 branch of the left anterior descending artery  and a bare metal stent was implanted. The CK and CK-MB peaked at 7,295 IU/L and 675 IU/L, respectively. Treatment with low-dose aspirin and clopidogrel was started. Warfarinization was performed due to the identification of a left ventricular thrombus on a transthoracic echocardiogram, and he was discharged on the 11th day after admission. After discharge, the laboratory data still showed erythrocytosis with an Hb level of 17.7 g/dL, an Ht level of 53.9%, and an HbA1c level of 4.4%, which was low, and raised the possibility of hemoglobinopathy. He reported that polycythemia had been repeatedly pointed out on annual checkups and that his brother also had polycythemia. Additional laboratory data revealed a total bilirubin level of 0.7 mg/dL, a lactate dehydrogenase level of 191 IU/mL (reference range, 118-223), and a haptoglobin level of 73 mg/dL. The serum erythropoietin level was mildly elevated at 56.2 mIU/mL (reference range, 9.1-32.8). A peripheral blood smear revealed no morphological abnormalities of the RBCs. The isoelectrofocusing of the RBC lysate showed an abnormal band overlapping HbA1c. The HbA1c content was determined by a routine high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis to be 4.4%, and no abnormal peaks were detected. The sequencing of the globin genes revealed a substitution of AAC(Asn)CAC(His) at codon 97 of the α globin gene, or Hb Fuchu-II (6). The α1-and β-globin genes were normal. A gap-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) unexpectedly revealed a-3.7 type deletion in the α-globin gene (-α 3.7 ), however, the glycerol lysis time was not prolonged and HbH inclusion bodies were not observed. The oxygen dissociation curve of the patient's whole hemolysate was shifted to the left and the p50 was 19.50 Torr, which was lower than that of the control (28.45 Torr) , thus indicating the high oxygen affinity of Hb Fuchu-II. When the O2 pressure of mixed venous blood was presumed to be 40 Torr, the decreased A-V difference of his blood (18.2% vs. 28% for normal control) suggested that Hb Fuchu-II had a reduced oxygen-carrying capacity. The decreased Hill's coefficient (2.28 vs. 2.58 for normal control) suggested a decreased heme-heme interaction or lack of cooperativity during O2 binding and release. The Bohr effect was also decreased (0.49 vs. 0.62 for normal control). He currently remains on low-dose aspirin and warfarin treatment and is stable without any symptoms or complications.
