An 81-year-old Caucasian woman presented to the emergency department with abdominal pain, vomiting and diarrhoea. The symptoms had started 5 days earlier. The medical history included rheumatoid arthritis (RA) diagnosed 43 years ago, arterial hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus. The RA was treated with methylprednisolone 4 mg daily and leflunomide 10 mg daily. Ten years ago, the patient underwent a percutaneous coronary intervention for a left anterior descending artery stenosis. The laboratory tests at admission pointed to lactic acidosis and a pronounced acute phase reaction. Serum lactate was increased, up to 64 mg/dl (normal 8.1–15.3 mg/dl). The C-reactive protein serum level was 161.9 mg/l (normal v5.00 mg/l) and there was a leukocytosis of 16 400 cells/mm 3. The serum B-type natriuretic peptide level was w35 000 pg/ml (normal v449 pg/ml), suggesting cardiac failure. Abdominal computer tomography (CT) revealed no intestinal ischaemia, but suggested splenic and hepatic hypoperfusion compatible with cardiogenic shock. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) for haemodynamic monitoring. Echocardiography showed right and left ventricular dysfunction with a marked decreased ejection fraction (25%) and moderate mitral regurgitation. Electrocardiogram and serial cardiac enzyme testing showed no signs of acute ischaemic heart disease. At admission the patient had a transient episode of atrial fibrillation with a pulse rate of 165 bpm. After the administration of metoprolol 5 mg, a sinus rhythm was obtained. At the day of admission, the blood pressure varied from 92/58 to 165/ 94 mmHg. On day 2, the patient was intubated for pulmonary support because of lung oedema. The duration of intubation was 28 hours. The blood pressure decreased to a minimum of 75/40 mmHg with a cardiac index of 2.–400 mg/dl). Low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin SC 40 milligram daily) was started on day 1. The patient had not received heparin in the recent history. On day 5, 6 and 7, the platelet count decreased to 75 000/mm 3. The platelet count normalised on day 9. The other laboratory parameters at day 5 were as follows: PT 74%, aPTT 29.1 seconds and fibrinogen 640 mg/dl. No platelet aggregates were present. No infectious agents were detected, despite thorough screening. Multiple viruses and bacteria, as a possible cause of cardiomyopathy, were serologically tested including herpes simplex virus, varicella zoster virus, coxsackie virus, HIV and Treponema pallidum. Hemocultures were negative. Because of the pronounced leukocytosis and CRP, intravenous treatment with ciprofloxacin and amoxicillin plus clavulanic acid was empirically administered, and switched to piperacilline/tazobactam on day 9, because of continuing fever and elevated CRP. From day 14 onwards, the patient was afebrile. The patient was discharged from the ICU on day 20. A new echocardiography at that time showed an improved ejection fraction (49%). Parallel to this cardiac history, the patient complained of a swollen tongue 24 hours after being admitted to the hospital. This could not be confirmed by visual inspection and at that time the patient was not yet intubated. After removal of the endotracheal tube (day 5), mucosal swelling of the tongue was noticed, while the capillary filling was maintained. On day 14, the lingual mucosa became pale due to hypoperfusion and mobility was decreased . Pricking of the tongue with a needle did not result in any bleeding or pain, indicating circulatory dysfunction and hypoesthesia. Further neurological clinical examination did not show any defect. Underlying acute cerebrovascular accidents were excluded by MRI. Local treatment with nystatin and povidone-iodine was applied. From day 15 onwards, the patient could no longer move her tongue which heavily impaired the speech and swallowing function. There was hypersalivation, due to a decreased clearance of saliva associated with the immobility of the tongue.started on day 18. A nasogastric feeding tube was inserted. On day 19, the tip of the tongue showed marked signs of necrosis , whereas there was no ischaemic necrosis of the extremities. From day 26 onwards, the necrotic tissue at the tip of the tongue slowly separated, leaving a healthy stump at the base of the tongue . Two days later, surgical debridement was performed. A biopsy of the affected area of the tongue showed ischaemic lesions, but was negative for vasculitis and amyloidosis. Tongue mobility returned 1 week after surgical debridement . Under the intensive care provided by the speech therapists, the speech and swallowing function recovered gradually. As could be predicted, the pronunciation of the apicodental consonants remained difficult. A fiberoptic examination of oropharyngeal swallowing (FEES) performed 10 days after surgical debridement showed a normal swallowing function.
