A 55-year-old male achondroplastic dwarf was referred to our center from a local hospital for coronary angiography after he sustained an anterior ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction and received thrombolytic therapy. He has no risk factors for coronary disease except dyslipidemia and relative obesity. His coronary angiography showed 3-vessel disease. On admission, he was stable with no chest pain, New York Heart Association functional class II–III, blood pressure of 125/70 mm Hg, and a heart rate of 69 beatsÁmin À1 in sinus rhythm. An electrocardiogram showed small Qwaves in the anterolateral leads, and chest radiography showed mild kyphoscoliosis. Coronary angiography revealed severe triple-coronary disease. The left anterior descending coronary artery had a mid subtotal stenosis of 95% after the first diagonal branch, while the left circumflex had a mid tight stenosis of 90% after the obtuse marginal. The right coronary artery was dominant with 80% proximal stenosis. Transthoracic echocardiography showed an ejection fraction of 35%, severe hypokinesia of the left anterior descending coronary artery and left circumflex territory, but with preserved thickness, normal right ventricular function, and valve lesion. The patient was referred for coronary artery bypass surgery. Examination by the cardiac surgery team noted an achondroplastic male dwarf with the typical picture of achondroplasia (short stature, large head with frontal bossing, small face, saddle nose, and disproportionate dwarfism, i.e., normal trunk length, full flanks, relatively big belly, very short limbs, exaggerated lumber lordosis, mild kyphoscoliosis). He also had vitiligo affecting his hands and face. Neither the patient's parents nor his 4 brothers were achondroplastic. There was no history of consanguinity. He was the 3rd child in the family. His father was 56-years old and his mother was 40-years old when he was born. He is married and has 3 offspring; 3 of them are achondroplastic dwarfs. There was no past medical history of significance. He was neither diabetic nor hypertensive, but dyslipidemic. His height was 110 cm and his weight was 47.5 kg; basal surface area 1.1 m 2. During preparation for surgery, the anesthetist experienced difficulty in obtaining venous and arterial access. The peripheral veins were very small, and the peripheral arteries including the femoral artery were difficult to cannulate. Left radial artery cut-down was performed. Venous access was made through the left femoral vein. The endotracheal tube size was calculated from body weight, and a pediatric tube used. The saphenous vein was harvested from the left leg; it was relatively small with moderate quality. Simultaneously, the left and right internal mammary arteries were harvested in a routine fashion, and we found that the mammary artery, especially on the left side, was further than normal from the sternal edge and relatively more adherent to the chest wall, but both were of good quality. Triple-bypass surgery was performed on-pump: a saphenous vein graft to the distal left circumflex artery, right internal mammary artery to the distal right coronary artery, and left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending coronary artery. The intraoperative and postoperative course was smooth with no inotropics required, and the patient did not require a blood transfusion. He was discharged home on the 5th postoperative day in good condition, and was doing well on follow-up visits.
