A 73-year-old man presented to our hospital complaining of acute-onset general fatigue and dysbasia with inferior limb adynamia. The cause of his symptoms was unclear, and we considered the possibility of infection, injury or other mental and/or physiological stressors. The patient had a medical history of dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus and arteriosclerosis obliterans, and his current medications included rosuvastatin (2.5 mg), glimepiride (3 mg), miglitol (150 mg), pioglitazone hydrochloride (15 mg), limaprost alfadex (15 μg) and cilostazol (100 mg). With the exception of the addition of miglitol two years earlier, the drug regimen had remained unchanged for four years. Additionally, no temporary administration of other agents, including fibrates, was performed for at least six months. Although the patient had a history of bilateral aorta-femoral artery bypass approximately 12 years earlier, there was no current information regarding his coronary circulation. In addition, there were no specific findings in his family history. The patient's consciousness was clear, and his main vital signs were almost within the normal limits, including his blood pressure, pulse rate and body temperature. His muscle strength was decreased in the bilateral inferior limbs; howDivision of Cardiology, Fujita Health University Second Hospital, Japan and Department of Cardiology, Fujita Health University Hospital, Japan Received for publication May 7, 2014; Accepted for publication June 4, 2014 Correspondence to Dr. Mutsuharu Hayashi, muhayasi@fujita-hu.ac.jpever, there were no sensory abnormalities or muscle tenderness. Blood tests performed at presentation showed renal dysfunction, with a serum creatinine level of 1.4 mg/dL (baseline: 0.5 mg/dL) and markedly elevated creatine kinase (CK) level of 16,538 U/L, although the CK-MB level was 35 U/ L. A delayed analysis of the CK isozyme revealed that 96% of the increased CK was of the MM form. Other representative data are shown in An electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrated remarkable ST-segment elevation in the I, II, aVF, aVL and V2-6 leads in addition to ST-segment depression in the aVR lead , without chest pain, dyspnea or any other cardiac symptoms. The patient's ECG findings and symptoms remained unaltered despite the intravenous administration of isosorbide dinitrate. Echocardiography disclosed left ventricular apical akinesis and a global reduction in left ventricular contractions; the ejection fraction measured according to Simpson's method was 52%. No other critically severe findings, such as valvular disease or left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, were detected. After admission, the withdrawal of rosuvastatin therapy and the administration of intravenous fluids improved the CK and creatinine levels. On the third hospital day, cardiac catheterization was performed after the patient's renal function had recovered. Although left ventriculography showed extensive akinesis limited to the apical segments, with hyperkinesis in the basal segments , coronary angiography showed no critical stenosis or occlusion , despite the prolongation of ST elevation on ECG. Simultaneously, ergonovine-induced coronary vasospasms were challenged, with negative results. Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. A subsequent serial ECG revealed sustained ST-segment elevation on the third hospital day , followed by ST-segment resolution in the lead with previous ST-segment elevation on the fifth hospital day  and T-wave inversion in the same leads as on admission on the 10th hospital day . Finally, the ECG findings on the 31st day showed sustained negative T-waves in the same leads. Following the prolongation of LV apical ballooning for a few days , an echocardiographic evaluation demonstrated a gradual reduction in the area of LV ballooning. Meanwhile, the left ventricular ejection fraction recovered to 62% on the seventh hospital day, then to 65% on the 18th hospital day. Prior to the patient's hospital discharge on the 20th hospital day, blood tests revealed normalization of his renal function and CK level.
