Our patient was a 35-year-old Norwegian man who suddenly collapsed in the street. Emergency services attended and started cardiopulmonary resuscitation on site, eventually achieving return of spontaneous circulation. The patient experienced another cardiac arrest in the emergency room at the hospital and was given thrombolytic treatment, but he died shortly thereafter. A 12-lead electrocardiogram showed irregular rhythm with both left and right bundle branch block . Apart from elevated lactate, his laboratory test results were normal . According to the patient's relatives, he had been healthy without known risk factors or a family history of coronary disease. He had occasionally smoked cannabis and hashish and drank alcohol. The use of other narcotic substances was unknown to his relatives or his general practitioner. The patient had been of medium build with a body mass index of 25 kg/m 2. He had experienced slight chest discomfort 1 month before his death; that episode lasted a couple of hours. The autopsy revealed a 20-mm-long thrombus lodged in the left anterior descending (LAD) branch of the coronary artery associated with moderate atherosclerosis in the same segment. The rest of his vascular system showed only focal mild atherosclerosis. His heart weighed 350 g and was not enlarged. The posterior wall of the left ventricle and part of the septum showed a sharply demarcated infarcted area with a largest diameter of 8 cm. It was yellow-red, soft, and had reddish edges. The rest of Twelve-lead electrocardiogram shows irregular rhythm with right and left bundle branch block the heart was unremarkable. The left and right ventricle walls were 10 and 5 mm thick, respectively. Other autopsy findings were the main diagnoses of acute MI and thrombosis of the LAD branch of the coronary artery as well as the secondary diagnoses of pulmonary atelectasis; blood stasis in the liver, spleen, and kidney; and mild focal atherosclerosis in the aorta and its major branches. The histological specimens from the heart and LAD branch were fixed in 4 % formaldehyde, embedded in paraffin, and cut at 4 μm. Sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Sections from the heart showed infarction with early organization (7–10 days old) and acute reinfarction at the edges . At 7–10 days old, an infarction is maximally yellow-tan and soft, with depressed red-tan margins and well-developed phagocytosis of dead cells as well as granulation tissue at the margins . The LAD branch showed atherosclerotic changes in the wall with remnants of a thrombus attached to the intima .
