A 60-year-old female presented to the emergency room with an acute inferior MI and was thrombolized with streptokinase within 5 hours from the onset of chestVentricular septal defect (VSD) is a life-threatening complication of transmural myocardial infarction. Urgent surgical repair and concomitant revascularization are the standard of care. Percutaneous catheter-based closure techniques have been reserved for patients with a high-risk surgery or a failed surgical procedure with residual shunting. This case report demonstrates the successful transcatheter closure of residual VSD using the Amplatzer muscular VSD device (Amplatzer, Minnesota, USA) after surgical patch dehiscence for postinfarction VSD and 3-and-a-half years' post-intervention follow-up. pain. She remained stable initially but developed pulmonary edema with oxygen desaturation on the third day. Vital signs were stable with elevated jugular venous pressure and pan-systolic murmur at the left sternal border. Echocardiography revealed akinetic basal to mid-inferior and posterior walls with the presence of basal septal defect and left-to-right shunt. Coronary angiogram revealed 3-vessel disease with mild left main involvement. Left ventriculogram confirmed the basal septal VSD. The patient was referred to our center for coronary bypass surgery (CABG) and VSD repair. On Dec 31, 2008, she underwent 4-vessel CABG and patch repair of VSD through the tricuspid valve using the exclusion technique. During surgery, the septum was found to be extensively damaged and friable, and a large patch of bovine pericardium was used to exclude the necrotic septum. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) during surgery showed successful closure, and subsequent echocardiography did not show any significant shunt across septum. She had a long postsurgical course with a severe heart failure, which gradually recovered and she was able to be sent home in a fair condition 4 weeks postoperatively. She was admitted with clinical features of pulmonary edema within a month. Echo revealed residual VSD with a left-to-right shunt involving basal inferior septum due to dehiscence of thepatch, and the pulmonary-to-systemic flow ratio was 2.3 . She had multiple further admissions with congestive heart failure and remained in decompensated state for most of the time. She was planned for a percutaneous closure of residual VSD after a discussion in a combined cardiology and cardiac surgery meeting. The procedure was performed 5 months later to surgery.
