A 46-year-old woman on hemodialysis due to end-stage renal disease was admitted with repeated stent thrombosis (ST). She had a history of hypertension, dyslipidemia, type 1 diabetes mellitus, and cigarette smoking. She had initially been treated 3 years previously with the implantation of 3 paclitaxeleluting stents (PES) for chronic total occlusion of the right coronary artery ( C), along with bypass surgery of the left internal thoracic artery to the left anterior descending artery and of the saphenous vein to the left circumflex artery. She was administered aspirin and clopidogrel thereafter. Two years after PES implantation, a first ST occurred at the distal PES site, where an everolimus-eluting stent (EES) was implanted . Four months later, a second ST occurred at the EES site within the PES, which was treated by balloon angioplasty. Three months later, a third ST occurred at the same site as the second ST, which was treated with a zotarolimuseluting stent (ZES) implantation in the EES . Follow-up angiography 20 days later revealed a filling defect ( , white arrow) indicating a thrombus formation at the ZES site inside the EES. She was referred to our hospital for further evaluation and treatment. She had been taking dual antiplatelet therapy including aspirin and clopidogrel. The platelet function tests were performed using the VerifyNow system (Accumetrics, San Diego, CA, USA). Measures of the antiplatelet effect of aspirin are expressed as aspirin reaction units (ARU), and those of clopidogrel are expressed as P2Y12 reaction units (PRU). Her results of the VerifyNow test were 465 ARU and 153 PRU. Prior to the percutaneous coronary intervention, the IVUS, OCT, and angioscopy were performed for this angiographic filling defect lesion in stent. The IVUS (Atlantis SR Pro 2, Boston Scientific, Natick, MA, USA) showed a hypoechoic mass with a superficial hyperechoic signal . The OCT (C7 OCT Imaging System, St Jude Medical, St Paul, MN, USA) showed a mass protruding into the lumen with high OCT-signal backscattering and attenuation . Angioscopy (Fullview NEO, iHeart Medical Co.Ltd., Tokyo) to this lesion revealed a white material with irregular surface protrusion into the lumen . IVUS, OCT, and angioscopy revealed that most of the stent struts were not covered by apparent neointima ( , E, F). Finally, this mass was easily and successfully removed using an aspiration catheter. IVUS, OCT, and angioscopy after aspiration confirmed that the mass was decreased dramatically and enough lumen area was obtained (Figures 2G, H, I) so subsequent procedures such as ballooning and stent implantation were not required. Histopathology of the aspirated mass revealed a calcified thrombus comprising multiple microcalcifications and fibrinous materials without apparent platelets or other blood corpuscles .
