Case 1 A 74-year-old gentleman with coronary risk factors of diabetes mellitus and hypertension was electively admitted for PCI for CAD in UKMMC. Diagnostic coronary angiogram revealed severe CAD with stenosis at the bifurcation of the artery. Coronary angioplasty was performed using drug-eluting stent (DES) for right coronary artery (RCA), left main stem coronary artery (LMS) and left anterior descending artery (LAD). Good angiographic flow was obtained post stents dilatation. On top of the dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin and clopidrogrel) started prior to the procedure, patient was loaded with clopidrogrel as well during the PCI. Electrocardiogram (ECG) showed sinus rhythm throughout and after the procedure. Bedside echocardiography showed good left ventricular ejection fraction without evidence of clot. However, immediately after it the patient complained of loss of vision in his right eye (RE), specifically involving the lower visual field. Visual acuity in the RE was 6/18 with an inferior visual hemifield defect. Fundus examination revealed BRAO involving the superior branches of the retinal artery with the presence of multiple emboli or Hollenhorst plaque in the branches of the superior retinal artery ( and b). The superior retina was swollen and pale . Complete neurological examination revealed no neurological deficit. No carotid bruit detected. ECG was stable without evidence of arrhythmia. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain was performed and no abnormalities were detected. Despite immediate conventional treatment for his BRAO was given, his RE inferior hemi-field loss was persistent. The condition remained stable and patient was informed for the guarded prognosis for further visual field recovery. Case was decided to continue on dual antiplatelet therapy without heparin therapy. He was monitored in CRW for another 48 h and discharged with stable vital sign and no evidence of new thromboembolic event. Dual antiplatelet was continued and planned for lifelong aspirin with one year clopidogrel by his cardiologist for his underlying treated coronary artery disese.
A 49-year-old gentleman with no past medical history presented to the emergency room of UKMMC with acute coronary syndrome. He was diagnosed with STEMI over the anterior leads. Primary PCI was carried out 2 h after and revealed 60–70 % blockage over the LAD and left ventricular clots by bedside echocardiogram. Angioplasty to LAD was done on the same setting. On day 2 of admission the case was further complicated with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) needed enoxaparin therapy which was converted to warfarin therapy later. The patient noted sudden loss of vision in his right eye immediately after the procedure but unfortunately he was too fatigued to complain to the treating doctor upon occurrence of the symptom. Only on day 6 of admission when patient was transferred to CRW, ophthalmological review noted that the patient was nonperceptive to light (NPL) over the RE with dense relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD). There was evidence of CRAO with classical cherry-red spot in the macula with normal intraocular pressure. There were also associated with diabetic retinopathy (DR) changes bilaterally with dots-blots and flame-shaped haemorrhages which were undiagnosed prior to admission . Complete neurological examination and carotid examination were documented normal and CT brain showed no significant abnormality. Due to the severe visual impairment (NPL), carotid Doppler ultrasound was done 3 weeks post PCI and revealed calcified plaque in the right proximal internal carotid artery (ICA). Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) at 2 months post PCI revealed occlusion of almost the entire intracranial right ICA. Possible diagnosis of right ocular ischaemic syndrome (OIS) was also considered. However, during the acute presentation, there was no anterior segment involvement (normal IOP) with the presence of cherry red spot at the macula that denotes the possibility of preservation of the choroidal circulation during the acute setting. Both important features during the acute presentation were suggestive of CRAO rather than OIS. However, potentially continuous embolic event to the ocular blood supply might occur with time due to the severe stenotic damage involving the carotid artery as featured on the MRA. This possible continuous embolization might lead to full-blown ocular ischaemic syndrome. Repeat fluorescein angiography might be able to prove these changes. However it was not performed in this particular patient as retinal angiogram at this juncture lacks of any additional clinical therapeutic value. His right eye vision was NPL and did not improve. Subsequent follow-up 2 months after the PCI, he eventually developed rubeosis iridis which was treated with laser photocoagulation. This patient was prescribed by his cardiologist with triple therapy with lifelong anticoagulant i.e. warfarin and aspirin and was also on clopidogrel for one month. Unfortunately patient was defaulted follow up 3 months post PCI.
