A 77-year-old woman without any coronary risk factors other than hypertension was admitted to the emergency department of our hospital with chest pain. She had not previously noticed any chest pain or dyspnea on exertion; however, her body weight had decreased by 3 kg in three months. On physical examination, the patient's blood pressure was 152/97 mmHg, her heart rate was 84 beats/min, her oxygen saturation was 95% with room air, her respiratory rate was 12 breaths/min, and her body temperature was 36.7. Auscultation revealed a systolic murmur (Levine 2/ 6) at the level of the third left intercostal space and no lung rales; moreover, no rashes or lymphadenopathy were noted. Her cardiothoracic ratio, measured on a chest X-ray, was 60%. An electrocardiogram showed ST elevation in leads V3-6 . The laboratory findings included a cardiac troponin I level of 3.31 ng/mL, a creatine kinase (CK) level of 210 U/L, and a CK-MB level of 20.9 U/L. The patient's white blood cell count was 4,610/μL and her D-dimer level was 3.4 μg/mL. Moreover, her C reactive protein level was 1.3 mg/mL, her erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 87 mm/ h, and her B-type natriuretic peptide level was 30.1 pg/mL. A transthoracic echocardiographic (TTE) examination showed a left ventricular diastolic diameter of 42 mm, a systolic diameter of 28 mm, and an ejection fraction of 61%. The LA was dilated (LA diameter: 36 mm, LA volume index: 37 mL/m 2 ), although the mitral inflow pattern was consistent with the patient's age (E wave peak: 70 cm/ s; A wave peak: 102 cm/s; E deceleration time: 248 ms). Hypokinesia of the left ventricular apex was noted. The TTE examination also revealed a mobile mass in the LA, although there was no evidence to suggest it was obstructing the mitral valve ( Because acute anterior myocardial infarction was suspected, we performed emergency coronary angiography (CAG). CAG indicated the sub-total occlusion of the distal left anterior descending artery (LAD), which was suspected to be due to an embolism from the left atrial mass . In addition, CAG indicated the presence of feeding arteries toward the LA mass from the right coronary artery (RCA) . The LA mass was swinging in the heart chambers during the cardiac cycle. Percutaneous coronary interventions, such as aspiration for coronary embolism, were not performed because the culprit lesion was too distal. Right heart catheterization revealed that the patient's hemodynamic status was within normal limits. After CAG, transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) was performed, which showed a mobile mass, measuring 31×27 mm, with an irregular and fernlike surface and an inhomogeneous appearance . The mass was widely attached to the interatrial septum between the fossa ovalis and the mitral valve. Color Doppler signals were detected in the mass. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated that the mass originated in the left atrium. The signal intensity of the mass was similar to that of the myocardium on T1weighted images, and high on T2-weighted images, alongwith enhancement on gadolinium-enhanced images . These findings on cardiac MRI are typical findings for myxoma. Moreover, MRI of the head detected a small cerebral infarction, while both kidney and spleen infarctions were detected by enhanced computed tomography . The patient's peak CK and CK-MB were 382 U/L and 30.1 U/L on day 2, respectively. With respect to electrocardiogram, ST elevation in leads V3-6 changed to terminal T wave inversion on day 2 and upright T waves on day 4 . Emergency surgical resection of the villous mass was performed to avoid further systemic embolism. The histopathological examination of the left atrial mass determined that it was a myxoma, and also demonstrated the presence of bleeding . 99m Technetium pharmacological stress myocardial perfusion imaging showed no defect on either the stress or the rest image after surgery . There were no complications in the postoperative period. A TTE examination performed one week after surgery, showed an ejection fraction of 66% without asynergy. The patient was discharged after 13 days.
