A 68-year-old woman presented to the emergency room with severe nausea and vomiting, accompanied by extreme fatigue, dizziness, and light headedness. The symptoms began 7 hours earlier and had been gradually increasing in severity. Vomitus was nonbilious, nonbloody, without coffee ground appearance. She denied chest pain or pressure, palpitations, orthopnea, and reported only mild dyspnea. Two weeks before presentation, the patient described having melena. Her primary care physician documented hemoglobin of 5.1 g/dL. However, the patient refused a blood transfusion and preferred therapy with only iron infusion. An esophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed no abnormalities. Colonoscopic imaging was inconclusive because of inadequate gastrointestinal preparation.
In 2011, the patient had PCI with a drug-eluting stent to the mid left anterior descending (LAD) artery, 2 drug-eluting stents to the left circumflex artery, and received clopidogrel 75 mg/d and aspirin (81 mg/d). Hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus were treated in the standard fashion. There was no history of smoking, peripheral artery disease, or family history of atherosclerosis. The patient was a thin short woman with a body mass index of 18.5. In the emergency room, the blood pressure was 88/49 mm Hg and the heart rate 54 bpm. She was drowsy with notable conjunctival pallor. The jugular venous pressure was estimated at 11 cm above the sternal angle. The heart rate was regular with normal S1 and S2, without murmurs, rubs, or gallops. The lungs were clear. The abdominal examination was benign with normal bowel sounds. There was no evidence of gross bleeding on rectal examination. The lower extremities were free of edema. The peripheral pulses were normal as was the neurological examination. A chest radiograph was normal. The initial ECG demonstrated sinus bradycardia with inferior ST-segment–elevation with an accompanying right ventricle (RV) infarct pattern as depicted on the subsequent right-sided ECG . Cardiac troponin was elevated to 2.8 (ng/mL). Hemoglobin was 4.1 (g/dL) and hematocrit was 17%. A fecal occult blood test was positive. The patient continued to be hypotensive with progressive bradycardia with intermittent Mobitz type II atrio-ventricular heart block. Although intravenous fluid resuscitation and aspirin (325 mg/PO) were administered, a dopamine drip was initiated and a temporary intravenous pacemaker was placed. With decreasing mental status, she was intubated and placed on mechanical ventilation.
