ATV:
where t is a parameter of the curve and sís defined as follows:
From these definitions, the value of curvature is the degree of flexion in the present study. The torsion is a value to quantree, and a visualization area. It enables users to recognize visually the multiple images derived from the modeling process at the same time and to confirm that their work has been appropriately performed. V-Modeler was applied to the 3 sets of medical images described above , which clearly demonstrated morphological changes of the SG at different timeframes. Each set of medical images was obtained from contrast-enhanced CT, acquired by a 64-slice CT scanner (Philips Brilliance 64 CT scanner; Philips Healthcare, Amsterdam, The Netherlands). . As each set of CT images was taken at different times with different body alignment, several reference points with minimal anatomic movement along the center line were set in the GUI of V-Modeler, as follows: (1) celiac, supra-mesenteric, and renal arteries; (2) aortic and iliac bifurcations in the native arteries; and (3) the proximal and distal edges in the SG. Then, we performed segmentation by using the 3-D region growing method 13 that examines neighboring voxels of initial seed points to determine whether the voxel neighbors should be added to the segmented region. The extraction of the SG center line was performed by the 3-D thinning algorithm, 13 which is based on Euclidean distance transformation. A sequence of the points on the center line of the SG were selected based on the segmentation , and were converted into the spline curve with the spline fitting method 14 using the least squares method with cubic spline base functions to fit a sequence of points with a B-spline curve. The 3-D surfaces of the lumen were constructed in the
). The SG center line was separately extracted .
, the center lines are converted into spline curves at the 3 time points and have not been aligned yet. In , the center lines are aligned to conduct registration . Thereafter, we can evaluate the length or degree of migration . To confirm the accuracy of measurement in the present model, the total length of the SG was measured bilaterally at various intervals (
. The length of the left side of the SG whose distal edge was not migrated did not show differences at any interval: 227.8 mm , 227.0 mm , and 227.0 mm . The length of the right side whose distal edge migrated showed minimal difference: 189.1 mm , 189.4 mm , and 185.4 mm . Thus, the negligible differences between tify helical motion, which is a combination of revolution and translation. ATV was our original parameter for understanding the helical motion from another point of view. Finally, we performed the registration of geometric reference points in the images among different time pointsIn this process, we calculated the rotated matrix and translated vectors to minimize the distance between corresponding reference points at the different time frames using the least squares method 15 with singular value decomposition.
shows a schematic example of process V. After the center lines were aligned so that each set of reference points at the different time frames were allocated at the same positions, the geometric parameter (equation 5) was calculated.
