This retrospective case report was done in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and all patients provided written informed consent. for the use of the images seen here.
A 32-year-old male had a history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, obesity, peripheral neuropathy, smoking, and amputation of the right hallux related to infection. The patient presented with a 7-month-old diabetic foot ulcer (University of Texas (UT) Wound Classification System +3B) on the dorsum and the plantar surface of the left foot. At the time of presentation, the infection of the left foot ( was noted to be non-responsive to oral antibiotics. The treatment plan consisted of intravenous (IV) antibiotics for cellulitis and a sterile surgical incision and drainage of the wound. During the procedure of the dorsal wound, purulence with necrotic muscle and tendon as well as tracking into the metatarsal head to the distal proximal phalanx and dorsum of the left foot were observed. Osteomyelitis was diagnosed and treated. NPWT (V.A.C. Therapy, KCI, an Acelity company, San Antonio, TX) was initiated for 10 days to reduce periwound oedema and to promote granulation tissue formation (
. On Day 11, HADWM was applied to the dorsal foot wound ( followed by reapplication of NPWT. Once placed into the wound, HADWM was left in to provide an acellular dermal matrix. Wound progress was monitored by nurses at each NPWT dressing change (2–3 times per week). At week 17, the wound showed complete epithelialisation (
. Additionally, this patient presented with a second wound—a diabetic foot ulcer on the plantar surface. The plantar wound was surgically explored on Day 1 (
and FSTS was placed in the wound on Day 11 (
. After four weeks the wound was treated granulation tissue formation was observed (
. Complete epithelialisation of the plantar wound was observed at eight weeks following FSTS application (
.
A 55-year-old male with a history of poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, smoking, hypertension, ulcerative colitis, atrial fibrillation, and septic shock secpneumonia presented with a left lower-extremity wound above the ankle (
. The wound was secondary to restraints and a sequential compression device. The patient's treatment plan consisted of wound debridement, NPWT for 10 days (
, and HADWM application ( . HADWM remained in the wound providing an acellular dermal matrix to promote cellular infiltration into the wound followed by wound healing. Following HADWM application, NPWT was initiated and the wound monitored for improvement at each dressing change (2–3 times per week) by the on duty nurse. At eight weeks post surgery, the wound showed granulation and wound improvement (
. By 10 weeks post surgery, the wound had closed (
.The wound was completely epithelialized by 14 weeks post surgery .
