An 8-month-old boy was referred to us with cough and cold for 15 days, fever for 5 days, and loose motions for 2 days. On examination, he was irritable and febrile. He had tachypnea and tachycardia with normal blood pressureHematological investigations revealed hemoglobin (Hb) 7.5 g/dL, total leucocyte count (TLC) 36.8×10 9 /L, P:76%, L:22%, platelet count 400x10 9 /L, C-reactive protein (CRP) 12 mg/dL, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 38 mm/h, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 15.6 U/L, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 10.0 U/L, serum sodium 137 meq/L, potassium 3.6 meq/L, serum albumin 2.3 g/dL, blood urea 25.2 mg/dL, and serum creatinine 0.72 mg/dL. Routine microscopy of urine and cerebrospinal fluid was normal. Antistreptolysin O (ASO) titer and Mantoux test were negative. Malarial parasites were not seen in smear. Chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly. Abdominal ultrasound was normal. He received injections of ceftriaxone, amikacin, metronidazole and gatifloxacin for four days before being referred to us. In our hospital, injections of meropenem, vancomycin and artesunate were administered empirically. Inspite of 10 days therapy, fever was unresponsive, and the child was provisionally diagnosed as KD. Two-dimensional echocardiography (2D-Echo) revealed left coronary artery dilatation (6.9 mm), no fistula, and mild pericardial effusion with ejection fraction of 60%. Subsequently, IVIG (2 g/Kg stat dose) and aspirin (85 mg/kg/day in divided doses) were administered. Fever was persistent even after 36 hours of IVIG, in view of resistant KD; a second dose of IVIG was given . Consequently fever subsided within 24 hours of the second dose of IVIG. Aspirin was prescribed at high doses till acute phase reactants normalized (7 weeks), following which the dose was tapered to 5 mg/kg/day. Echocardiography at 4 months revealed reduction in left coronary artery dilation (3.4 mm) that completely resolved at 9 months; aspirin was stopped subsequently.
The child again presented at three years of age (after 2 years of first episode) with fever for four days, pain in legs and swelling of hands and feet for two days. He had no history of cold, cough, allergy, insect bite or drug intake. On examination, the child was febrile and irritable with tachycardia and normal blood pressure. His oral mucosa, tongue and pharynx were diffusely injected; ulcers, enanthem and exudates were not noted. Right sided cervical lymphadenopathy (>1.5 cm) along with dry, crusted and cracked lips were present. Edema was noted over hands and feet. Skin examination did not revealed eruptions or rashes. Rest of the systemic examination was normal. Laboratory tests revealed Hb 8.7 g/dL, TLC 16.8 ×10 9 /L with 73% neutrophils, platelet count 521×10 9 /L, serum albumin 3.2 g/dL, AST 154.0 U/L, ALT 159.7 U/L, ESR 48.0 mm/h, CRP 4.8 mg/dL, Serum sodium 128 meq/L and potassium 3.9 meq/L; ASO titer was negative. Peripheral smear for malarial parasite and Mantoux test were negative. Blood culture was sterile. Renal function tests and routine microscopic examination of urine was normal. Chest X-ray and abdominal ultrasound was normal. The child was administered intravenous ceftriaxone, oral antihistaminics and antipyretics. Despite 72 hours of therapy, fever persisted and there was worsening of oral mucosal congestion and swelling of extremities. Widal and malaria antigen tests were negative. Subsequently, child developed periungal desquamation of fingers, and the child was diagnosed as recurrent KD with incomplete presentation (>5d fever along with 3 clinical criteria: changes of mucosae of oropharynx, cervical lymphadenopathy and changes of peripheral extremities). Concomitant echocardiogram revealed normal coronary arteries. On the 7th day of fever, the child was administered with IVIG (2 g/Kg/day) and aspirin (80 mg/Kg/day) in three divided doses. Defervescence was achieved within 24 hours and remaining features improved over next 2 days. Follow-up after 15 days revealed desquamation of skin of both soles . Skin peeling was in sheets and vastly intense to involve the entire sole, which further substantiated our diagnosis. Coronary arterial abnormalities (CAA) were not noted in 2D-echo at 6 weeks, 6 months and 12 months
