A 54-year-old Caucasian man with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular insufficiency, and a history of ischemic heart disease, presented in December 2007 with significant visual loss in his right eye (RE) and the occurrence of metamorphopsia and central scotoma. His left eye (LE) was unaffected. He was in treatment with lowdose aspirin and oral antihyperglycemics and antihypertensives, and had undergone two triple coronary bypasses in the previous years (latest in 2004). His heart disease and diabetes were well compensated; his blood pressure and hemodynamic parameters were controlled. Eye examinations (fundus photography, autofluorescence; fluorescein angiography; and optical coherence tomography, OCT) revealed the presence of CNV in his RE, while no abnormalities were seen in his LE. Best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 20 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letters for his RE and 78 ETDRS letters for his LE. He was diagnosed with angioid streaks associated with PXE, which was confirmed by skin biopsy. Off-label treatment of his RE with intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (1.25mg/50μL) once a month was initiated in December 2007, but discontinued after 3 months in February 2008 due to lack of efficacy (no improvement in visual acuity). In September 2008, He reported reduced visual acuity in his LE. Eye examinations (fundus photography, fluorescent angiography and OCT) revealed changes in his LE and confirmed angioid streaks and CNV in his RE . Photodynamic therapy was proposed but a second opinionwas sought outside Italy. There, treatment of his LE with the anti-VEGF agent ranibizumab (unavailable in Italy at that time) was proposed and initiated in October 2008 with a loading dose (three consecutive monthly intravitreal injections of ranibizumab 0.5mg/50μL) followed by treatments as needed until May 2014 (endpoint of the present observation). His RE was not treated after February 2008. Eye examinations – fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, B-scan OCT and en face OCT – were performed in May 2014. The reason for using en face OCT was to better investigate the " cystic-like appearance " of outer retinal tubulation (ORT) that may be confused with cystoid macular edema related to leakage from CNV. According to other authors , the presence of ORT during follow-up supports the concept that these structures are not a sign of ongoing neovascular activity and its presence, if not identified as ORT, can potentially lead to unnecessary treatment.
, and one in May 2014. An eye examination in May 2014 revealed angioid streaks and CNV in both eyes . In his RE, a large fibrotic lesion was localized in the mainly posterior pole, while in his LE, the fovea was involved. His RE showed retinal layer deterioration with outer limiting membrane (OLM) and photoreceptor inner/outer segment junction involvement, while in his LE, the smaller foveal scar preserved the photoreceptor junction, the OLM and the retinal layers . His visual acuity was stable in his ranibizumab-treated LE but had further decreased in his RE. Intraocular pressure was normal (16mmHg) in both eyes. Ranibizumab treatment was well tolerated with no adverse events reported throughout the 6-year treatment period.
