A 23-year-old male was admitted to our university hospital with severe pain and a history of progressive perineal swelling over a period of two weeks. His medical history was non-contributory except a left-sided varicocele ligature performed six years ago. No sexual trauma, dysuria or urethral discharge was reported by the patient. Excessive bicycle riding, masturbation, marijuana or cocaine consumption as well as recent long distance flights were negated. Physical examination confirmed the absence of priapism. A firm, fixed and extremely painful mass was palpable at the proximal penis. The complete blood count, electrolytes, coagulation profile, CRP and urine analysis were unremarkable. Gray-scaled ultrasound (Siemens Acuson S2000, Siemens Sector Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany) combined with color Doppler of the penis using a 6 MHz transducer (Siemens 6C1 HD, Siemens Sector Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany) revealed an elongated hypoechogenic mass ( , arrow) with irregular hyperechogenic internalechoes. Color Doppler ultrasound demonstrated absence of flow within the inhomogeneous mass ( , arrow). Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (Acuson Sequoia with 4 MHz transducer, Siemens Sector Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany; 1.2 ml SonoVue®, Bracco Imaging, Milano, Italy) revealed a lack of contrast enhancement in the hypoechogenic mass. This was interpreted as segmental thrombosis of the corpus cavernosum ( , arrow). For confirmation of this diagnosis a MRI study (1.5 T Siemens Avanto, Siemens Sector Healthcare, Erlangen, Germany) of the pelvis was performed. Transversal T2-weighted images of the pelvis showed a hypointense thrombus of the right proximal corpus cavernosum ( , white arrow). T1-weighted fat saturated transversal scans after intravenous contrast medium injection (Gadovist®, Bayer HealthCare AG, Leverkusen, Germany) revealed an intermediate signal and a lack of contrast uptake in the right proximal corpus cavernosum ( , black arrow) consistent with sub-acute partial segmental thrombosis of the corpus cavernosum. Conservative treatment was initiated and consisted of anticoagulation with low molecular weight heparin (Enoxaparin 40 mg once daily) and acetylsalicylic acid (100 mg once daily).
