A 31-year old male presented to the emergency care unit with a 3-month history of gradually progressive exertional dyspnoea, with symptoms worsening for the last 10 days. The patient had an episode of syncope and two episodes of haemoptysis. He was initially admitted to an outside hospital with breathlessness, and was diagnosed to have acute pulmonary thromboembolism (PE) by computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA). He was thrombolysed with IV tenecteplase, but showed no improvement. Hence, he was referred to our hospital for further management. In view of the persistent breathlessness on admission, CTPA was repeated at our hospital and revealed 'acute PE' with hypodense filling defects with expansion of the main pulmonary artery (MPA) extending into both pulmonary arteries, i.e. segmental and subsegmental branches. A saddle-shaped, irregular filling defect was seen at the MPA bifurcation . There were few enlarged bronchial collaterals. No significant adenopathy was seen. There were no features of extrapulmonary extension of the lesion. The patient was put on anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents with supportive oxygen therapy. He remained symptomatic. In view of the enlarged pulmonary artery branches and absence of webs, a decision was taken to investigate with positron emission tomography (PET)–CT to rule out a neoplasm. Whole-body 18 F-FDG-PET–CT performed 2 days later revealed a mildly hypermetabolic saddle thrombus in the MPA with extension into the segmental arteries, suggestive of a neoplastic aetiology. No other hypermetabolic lesion was found in the rest of the body. The possibility of pulmonary angiosarcoma was raised. The patient was maintained on supportive oxygen therapy and medications. He underwent preoperative catheter angiography a week after admission, which did not reveal neovascularity or any additional features. The patient then underwent surgical exploration with total circulatory arrest and cardiopulmonary bypass. Hypothermia was : Axial images of contrast-enhanced CT at initial presentation, at the level of MPA bifurcation, show a saddle-shaped, hypodense filling defect at the MPA bifurcation extending into both RPA and LPA (open arrow). CT: computed tomography; MPA: main pulmonary artery; RPA: right pulmonary artery; LPA: left pulmonary artery.induced with systemic cooling to 20°C, with infusion of a cold blood cardioplegia solution at 4°C through the aortic root. On surgical exposure, the MPA was found to be distended and tense. Tumour excision was performed through the MPA removing the tumour thrombi from the MPA and pulmonary artery branches up to the hilum. Tumour excision was uneventful, and near-total removal was achieved. After tumour removal, left and right pulmonary arteries were closed directly during warming. The postoperative period was uneventful. A 2-week postoperative echo showed no residual mass in the MPA and its branches. The patient was discharged on anticoagulants. The histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses of the surgical specimen showed features of extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma (EMC; and B). Repeat CTPA performed after 4 weeks showed a reduction in vascularized intraluminal filling defects. The patient underwent three cycles of chemotherapy with gemcitabine and docetaxel under the supervision of an oncologist. Patient had deterioration of symptoms over the next 2 months. Repeat CTPA showed a significant increase in tumour thrombus and pericardial fluid. He expired about 9 months after presentation of the initial symptoms.
