The decedent was a 34 year old female with a past medical history of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), remote Nissen fundoplication, endometriosis, abdominal trauma requiring multiple surgeries, chronic oral opioid use, pseudoseizures, post-traumatic stress disorder, and anxiety.Due to upper gastrointestinal symptoms (dysphagia to solids and liquids) she underwent investigations which revealed a recurrent paraesophageal hernia and a defect in the posterior wrap of her Nissen fundoplication. She underwent laparoscopic paraesophageal hernia repair for surgical management of her symptoms. Post-operatively, she began experiencing dysphagia and epigastric pain on swallowing and was subsequently readmitted to hospital for further investigations. An endoscopy failed to find a mechanical cause for her symptoms and she was started on TPN for nutritional supplementation. She received TPN through a peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) placed into her right brachial vein. The TPN solution consisted of a standard 7 % amino acid solution with 20 % dextrose, 20 % fat emulsion and sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and phosphate. In total, she received TPN for 14 days, however it was discontinued due to sepsis originating from her PICC site. Following the removal of her right brachial vein PICC, she received a new PICC in her left internal jugular vein and was started on enteral feeding. Beginning 2 days after TPN was started and continuing until her death, the patient experienced repeated episodes of hypoxia, hypotension, tachycardia, and fever. Due to clinical suspicion of pulmonary embolism, computed tomography (CT) pulmonary angiography was performed which excluded pulmonary embolism but demonstrated findings of pulmonary hypertension and patchy areas of ground-glass opacities as well as centrilobular nodules and tree-in-bud opacities throughout the lungs bilaterally. Bilateral venous doppler ultrasonography revealed absence of deep vein thrombosis of the legs and a trans-thoracic echocardiogram was within normal limits. Approximately 1 month after ceasing TPN, she was again noted to be hypotensive, tachycardic, and febrile. Blood cultures and a chest X-ray were both negative. After an episode of hypoxia with elevated temperature, she was found unresponsive in her hospital bed and died despite resuscitative efforts. At the time of her death, her prescribed oral medications included hydromorphone, lorazepam, clonazepam, domperidone, docusate sodium, lactulose, ondansetron, lansoprazole, zopiclone, and gabapentin. Notably, the patient had no personal history of intravenous drug use and no concerns were documented pertaining to possible abuse of prescribed medications while in hospital. At autopsy, the absence of thromboembolic disease was confirmed. The right lung weighed 710 g and the left lung 640 g. The upper lobes of both the right and left lungs were abnormal in appearance (diffuse gray color) but without the firmness of bronchopneumonic consolidation. The right middle lobe and the lower lobes of both lungs were slightly firm. Due to the absence of a grossly identifiable cause of death, a frozen section of lung tissue was performed at the time of autopsy. This revealed global occlusive foreignbody granulomatous inflammation of all calibers of the pulmonary arterial vasculature, in response to amorphous, rod-shaped polarizable foreign material and unassociated with any similar intra-alveolar foreign-body granulomas to indicate aspiration. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections replicated the findings seen in frozen section . No other organs contained microvascular emboli and the foreign material was brightly birefringent under polarized light . Special stains of the material revealed that it stained yellow by Movat pentachrome stain, stained red by Congo red, red-violet by periodic-acid Schiff (PAS) stain and stained black by a Gomori methenamine silver (Grocott) stain . There was no calcium identified by either alizarin red stain or von Kossa stain. Energy dispersive X-spectroscopy in conjunction with electron microscopy revealed that the polarizing material was organic in nature. None of the elemental constituents of TPN including calcium, phosphate, magnesium, potassium, or sodium were identified. Infrared spectroscopy further characterized the material as cellulose-based . Femoral blood toxicologic analysis revealed a hydromorphone concentration of 22 ng/ mL (±ng/mL) (fatal reference[51 ng/mL) as well as small quantities of substances compatible with her other prescription medications. The cause of death was determined to be occlusive granulomatous foreign-body embolization. The mechanism of death was acute cor pulmonale which resulted from a sudden increase in resistance to blood flow within the pulmonary circulation and lead to acute right heart failure. A cardiothoracic radiologist who was provided with the appropriate clinical history reviewed the decedent's thoracic CT scans. While hospitalized the decedent had four thoracic CT scans over a period of 44 days, the first of which was performed 3 days post-operatively. One of the four CT scans was performed 2 days after the initiation of TPN while the other three predated this therapy (42, 32, and 16 days prior to the initiation of TPN). All CTs during her admission were compared to a previous CT scan (baseline) which had been performed 5 months earlier. The CT findings as compared to baseline could be divided into pulmonary parenchymal and cardiovascular findings. The parenchymal findings included centrilobular nodules, tree-in-bud and ground-glass opacities. The cardiovascular findings were indicative of pulmonary hypertension and elevated right side cardiac pressures and included enlargement of the pulmonary artery and right cardiac chamber and flattening of the interventricular septum (Figs. 4, 5). Although these findings improved from the first admission CT to the last CT, the lung parenchyma never returned to its normal appearance as seen on the baseline CT. The radiological interpretation was therefore that the parenchymal changes had pre-dated the use of TPN.
