A previously healthy 7-year-old Korean boy presented to our clinic with hypertension and intermittent headaches. His blood pressure (BP) was 137/93 mmHg and 24 h ambulatory mean BP was 181/117 mmHg (daytime, 197/125 mmHg; nighttime, 160/91 mmHg). He was admitted for further evaluation of the hypertension. He had no episodes of persistent fever of unknown origin, and no symptoms such as stomatitis, arthritis, and skin rash that were indicative of autoimmune disease. There was no family history for autoimmune, cardiovascular, or renal disease. Except for the high BP values, the physical examination yielded unremarkable results. He also didn't exhibit any facial anomalies or skin lesions. Laboratory examination indicated that blood cell count, serum creatinine levels, serum electrolyte levels, thyroid function, and urinalysis results were normal. In addition, serum C-reactive protein (CRP) levels and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) were normal. Vasculitis screening, including tests for antinuclear antibodies, antibodies to double-stranded DNA, and anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, indicated normal results. Fundoscopic examination showed minimally increased vascular tortuosity. Echocardiography showed no specific abnormalities. Renal ultrasonography demonstrated abnormal Doppler waveforms in the left kidney, characterized by a tardus–parvus pattern . A 64-channel MDCT showed severe focal stenosis at the middle portion of the left renal artery (LRA) and multiple collateral vessels. PTRA was performed with multiple inflations; during the final attempt, the balloon was inflated at a pressure beyond the burst pressure. However, unsatisfactory results were obtained. The author suspected a diagnosis of intimal-type FMD based on his clinical features, angiographic appearance, and resistance to PTRA. As his BP could be well controlled with antihypertensive medication after the initial intervention, the author decided to attempt PTRA once more or another surgery after he reached puberty. A repeat MDCT  at 11 years of age showed persistent severe stenosis at the middle portion of the LRA with post-stenotic dilatation. Abdominal angiography  showed similar results, and hence, PTRA was attempted 3 times by using high pressure balloons with different sizes. However, as the dilatation was not successful and the levels of inflammatory markers (ESR and CRP) were within normal range, we decided to attempt percutaneous revascularization via CBA. After CBA was performed with a 3.5-mm cutting balloon , repeat abdominal angiography  showed no clinically significant residual stenosis. He was discharged without any antihypertensive medication. At 7 months after CBA, on follow-up MDCT, no signs of restenosis of the LRA were noted . Subsequently, at 1 year and 6 months after CBA, he appears normotensive and has not required any antihypertensive medication.
