A 17-year-old teen presented to our hospital complaining of chest pain. He was a high school student and had never smoked. He had atopic dermatitis and a history of colon perforation at 16 years of age. His height was 165 cm and his weight was 47 kg. Chest auscultation was nearly normal, and he had a respiratory rate of 14 breaths/min. The skin surface was mildly hard, but with normal elasticity. No hyperextension or thinning of the skin was apparent, and no joints were hyperextensive. Internal bleeding was identified at the right axilla. No retinal detachment, blue sclera, or corneal abnormalities were found on an ophthalmologic examination. Laboratory tests showed the following: white blood cell count, 5,130/μL (eosinophils, 17%); hemoglobin, 15.0 g/dL; platelet count, 253,000/μL; and immunoglobulin E, 2,482 IU/mL. The results of liver function tests and the C-reactive protein level were all within normal limits. Free air spaces were identified at the apical portions of bilateral lungs on a chest X-ray, and diffuse ground-glass opacities and bilateral pleural effusions were seen on chest computed tomography (CT) ( , 2). We speculated that this pattern suggested an intrapulmonary hemorrhage. Diffusely distributed cavities and a few calcified lesions were also apparent on CT. The patient was admitted with a diagnosis of bilateral pneumothorax. Catheter tubes were inserted into the bilateral intrathoracic spaces and bloody pleural effusion was confirmed. Because it was difficult to achieve hemostasis, the patient required astriction for approximately 5 minutes. After both lungs achieved full expansion, the patient was discharged from our hospital. Pneumohemothorax, hemorrhagic tendency and perforation of the colon suggested the possibility of EDS. We therefore performed chromosomal testing using the Gbanding stain on the peripheral blood, however, no chromosomal divisions were identified in the sample. We then reevaluated the tissues removed at the operation for colon perforation. Marked degeneration of the collagen fibers was evident in the submucosal layer. Degeneration and rupture of the collagen fibers was recognized using Elastica van Gieson staining and type III collagen immunostaining. Atypical thickening of the vascular walls and degenerated and ruptured elastic fibrils  suggested EDS type IV. A skin biopsy showed reduced amounts of type III collagen and ruptured elastic fibrils . In addition, a mutation analysis of the COL3A1 cDNA sequence revealed that the patient had a point mutation, c.1511g>a in exon 23, and the collagen production capacity using the cultured patient's skin fibroblasts revealed that type III collagen α1 protein production was 12.3% of normal . Therefore, we diagnosed the patient to have EDS type IV. The details of these results were previously reported by Shimaoka et al. as Case 3 (4).
