A 17-year-old white boy presented to our out-patient clinic with a 6-month history of pain in his left knee joint. His complaint had an insidious onset and his pain was mostly upon weight bearing. No giving-way was reported: giving-way is a complaint by the patient about losing single leg stance because the joint subluxes due to pathological laxity, which is a symptom of joint instability. During the 6 months of his complaint he did not report any swelling or redness of his left knee or leg. Fever was also absent. Oral painkillers did not produce significant pain relief. There was no history of trauma to the extremity. His family history was insignificant without any diseases. He had not undergone any operations in the past and did not take any regular medications. He had no known allergies. He was afebrile at presentation. A physical examination revealed no gait disturbances; he walked normally without any limping. By inspection, following the exposure of his lower limbs bilaterally, no scars, redness, rashes, muscle wasting, obvious swelling or obvious deformity (varus, bow-legged; or valgus, knock-knees) were seen. On palpating his knee joint there was no warmth. His skin temperature was bilaterally normal and similar. No joint effusion was felt. A patella tap test was negative. The patella tap test is a test to detect joint effusion, where the examiner, with extended knee of the patient, applies pressure with one hand above the knee to empty the suprapatellar pouch into the knee joint. With the other hand the patella will be tapped with a downward force. A positive test is if the patella can be felt touching (tapping) the femur. There were no retropatellar pains or crepitation. Zohlen sign was negative. In the Zohlen test, the patient's knee is extended, and the examiner gently presses the patella into the trochlear groove while asking the patient to tense the extensor muscles of the thigh: quadriceps femoris. If this manoeuver causes pain, the test is positive and it is a sign of femoropatellar joint irritation. There was slight tenderness at his medial joint space and medial tibia plateau, but no tenderness at the border of his patella, lateral joint space or patellar tendon insertion on palpation. No palpable Baker's cyst in the popliteal fossa could be detected. The range of motion of his left knee joint was, according to the Neutral0 Method, extension/flexion 0-0-125 degrees. Pain was produced on maximal knee flexion. His anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) was stable, with negative 'anterior drawer' and 'Lachman's' tests: the Lachman's test is a variant of the anterior drawer test, and is performed between 20 and 30 degrees of knee flexion to test for the stability of the anterior translation of the knee provided by the ACL. His 'pivot shift' test was also negative. The pivot shift test is another test that can accurately indicate an ACL rupture. The test is performed with the patient's knee starting in full extension. While maintaining internal rotation of the tibia, a valgus force is applied and the knee is slowly flexed to 25 and 30 degrees. The examiner will feel for a subluxation of the lateral tibial plateau as it reduces to its normal position, which indicates an ACL rupture. His posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) was stable, with negative 'posterior drawer' and 'quadriceps' tests. The quadriceps test is used to diagnose PCL rupture and to measure posterior laxity of the knee. The test is performed with the knee flexed between 80 and 90 degrees and in neutral rotation. From the initial position, the patient is asked to fire the quadriceps muscle while the examiner applies counter pressure against the ankle. As the quadriceps applies pressure, any posterior translation of the tibia on the femur will be reduced back to a normal position. Varus (medial) stress and valgus (lateral) stress tests (in 0 and 15 degrees of flexion) were negative indicating stable lateral and medial collateral ligaments, respectively. McMurray's and Steinmann 1 tests were positive for the medial meniscus. McMurray and Steinmann 1 are tests to diagnose meniscal pathology. The tests are performed with the hip and knee at 90 degrees of flexion. The tibia is rotated medially and laterally. The test is positive if lateral pain is elicited on medial rotation and medial pain is elicited on lateral rotation. The tests are performed at various degrees of knee flexion. Anteroposterior and lateral X-ray of his left knee joint showed a small rounded radiolucent lesion in his proximal tibia, with no periosteal reaction (Figs. 1 and 2), which was interpreted as a simple bone cyst. Otherwise the X-ray was normal. With clinically absent infection signs, we did not take any blood samples or perform any laboratory tests. With the suspected diagnosis of medial meniscus damage, to identify the nature of the bone cyst and to exclude the presence of a tumor, we scheduled for him a regular appointment 2 weeks later for an MRI of his left knee in our radiology department. We prescribed him further oral painkillers in the interim. One week after his initial presentation to us, he presented acutely in our emergency department complaining of a sudden increase in the pain and swelling of his knee joint, with pain and swelling of his left leg. No history of a recent trauma was reported. A physical examination revealed swelling and warmth of his left knee joint with maximal tenderness in the dorsal aspect of the joint. Swelling, tenderness and warmth of his left calf were also noted. Laboratory values at the time of admission showed elevated CRP of 60.8 mg/l, normal leukocyte count of 9.3 and elevated D-dimer of 1.22 mg/l. An ultrasound of his left knee and Doppler ultrasound of his left leg were performed. A deep vein thrombosis (DVT) could be excluded. An incarcerated Baker's cyst with suspected rupture or bleeding in the cyst was reported. An MRI of his left knee and leg was recommended. This was performed on the same day to further clarify the diagnosis and exclude leg compartment syndrome. The MRI showed a well-defined central intramedullary cystic lesion with fluid collection in the proximal tibia metaphysis extending to the epiphysis with extensive surrounding reactive bone marrow edema . Extensive suprapatellar joint effusion with reactive synovitis was also seen . Partial fasciitis of his left leg and myositis of the medial head of his gastrocnemius muscle were also described . The MRI finding was suggestive of a Brodie's abscess. The synovial fluid of his left knee was aspirated and was sent to microbiological examination, where no bacteria were isolated. Emergency surgery was indicated and performed on the same day. Open surgical debridement and curettage with drainage of the abscess through a posterior approach was performed. Putrid turbid fluid was evacuated from the lesion and sent for bacteriological examination and culture. Cultures were positive for Staphylococcus aureus. Histologic tissue examination showed evidence of focal osteomyelitis without signs of malignancy. The patient's left knee was immobilized for 2 weeks until complete wound healing, using a splint (Mecron-Schiene; DARCO, Europe, GmbH,Raisting, Germany). He was postoperatively treated with antibiotics (flucloxacillin), initially intravenously and then orally, for an overall period of 5 weeks (2 weeks until discharge and then a further 3 weeks). Under antibiotics his CRP decreased so that on discharge he had a normal CRP of 1.3 mg/l and a weeks postoperatively. He was advised to be nonweight-bearing for 3 weeks postoperatively and then allowed 15 kg of weight bearing for a further 3 weeks. Full weight bearing was permitted 6 weeks postoperatively. Adequate thrombosis prophylaxis was performed during his in-patient stay and advised to be continued until full weight bearing was possible. We arranged a follow-up MRI appointment in our institution and an appointment in our out-patient clinic for a follow-up clinical examination 3 months postoperatively. However, he presented to our out-patient clinic 2 months postoperatively complaining of pain in his left knee following a direct fall on his knee that occurred 1 week previously. On physical examination there was no redness, warmth or an obvious swelling of his left knee. No joint effusion was felt. No local tenderness could be elicited. The active and passive movement of his left knee joint was free with normal range of motion. A plain X-ray of his left knee was performed, which did not show any fresh bone injury. A small radiolucent area in his proximal tibia was still seen (Figs. 6 and 7). He had a normal CRP of 0.3 mg/l and a normal leukocyte count of 8.01. He was reassured and advised to present 1 month later for the already arranged MRI and clinical follow-up appointments. One month later (3 months postoperatively) a followup MRI of his left knee was performed; he then presented to our out-patient clinic for a follow-up clinical examination. The MRI revealed a residual defect in his proximal tibia with a little residual reactive bone marrow edema with no joint effusion, no signs of synovitis, inflammation or abscess formation (Figs. 8 and 9). He was asymptomatic and pain-free, with no residual local tenderness. A follow-up examination in our out-patient clinic in 6 months was recommended.
