A 61-year-old white Caucasian man with history of KTWS presented with seizures. Our patient had been diagnosed with KTWS at the age of seven after an episode of rectal bleeding. Upon neurological examination, our patient was able to follow commands and move all extremities, and exhibited mild left drift. Left upper and lower extremity hypertrophy, left foot, leg and ear gigantism and left-sided abdominal capillary hemangiomas were noted upon physical examination ( , B, C). A head computerized tomography (CT) scan without contrast was obtained, showing a hypodense lesion with peripheral bleeding in the anteromedial right frontal lobe . Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a heterogeneous lesion in the cingulate gyrus, with peripheral and central areas of T1 hyperintensity and layering T2 hypointensity consistent with the hemorrhage. There was minimal rim enhancement along the inferior margin of the hemorrhage ( , B, C, D). A right parasagittal frontal craniotomy was performed with an interhemispheric approach. A hemorrhagic mass was identified and operative microscopic impression was consistent with malignant intrinsic brain tumor. Although there was no extraordinarily excessive bleeding more than usually seen in high-grade gliomas during resection of the mass, as we resected the mass and reached relatively normal-looking white matter, we encountered more bleeding from the white matter. We had a hard time controlling the bleeding with bipolar electrocautery and finally were able to stop the bleeding with surgicel and gelfoam. Platelets and plasma were transfused during surgery and during the postoperative period. Postoperative cranial CT and MRI scans showed intraparenchymal hemorrhage centered within the medial right frontal lobe ( , B). There was no increase in hematoma size in consecutive CT scans. Our patient did not develop any additional neurologic deficit in his postoperative course. Our patient had rectal bleeding and the colonoscopic data showed bleeding in the distal colon and midsigmoid colon. In the surrounding mesentery were numerous nodular and tubular sections of soft tissue with density likely to represent enlarged vasculature and vascular malformations in this area. The process was described to be possibly related to the patient's KTWS and the marked colonic wall thickening was possibly related to varices and vascular malformations, although it was nonspecific by imaging. Our patient was followed up and treated in line with the recommendations of the hematology and gastroenterology clinics, and he was eventually discharged after his general situation improved. Histopathology was reported as a grade IV astrocytoma. Our patient refused to have any adjunctive treatment and eventually died five months after the surgery due to the progression of his intracranial disease.
