Patient 1, a 48 year old female, who had a history of progressive heart failure, dyspnoea at rest and cyanosis for three weeks prior to hospitalization. The patient had no complaints of fever above 38 C, night sweating or loss of more than 10 % of body weight over a period of six or less (B symptoms). On the day of hospitalization a transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) was performed. An inhomogeneous tumour was found in both atria. It was almost closing the orifice of the tricuspid valve (the diameter of the tricuspid valve orifice was 2.38 cm and the diameter of the part of the tumour closing the orifice was 2.25 cm) and penetrating the left ventricle via the interventricular septum. Complete blood count (CBC) and coagulation profile test (CPT) were within normal limits. The patient was immunocompetent and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) tests were negative. Due to a rapid and severe heart failure an open chest operation was performed, during which a biopsy of the tumour was taken. Fast intra-operative analysis of the specimen revealed that the tumour was malignant. Because the tumour was inoperable and the patient's hemodynamics was unstable, a decision was made to perform a Fontan procedure as a palliative method in order to stabilize the patient's condition and to provide time for chemotherapy. The superior vena cava (SVC) was anastomosed to the right pulmonary artery (RPA)University, Vilnius, Lithuania Full list of author information is available at the end of the article . This way venous blood flow was redirected to the lungs and obstructed right heart was bypassed. After the surgery, the patient's condition improved. She was extubated on the second day after the surgery. Breathing was spontaneous and arterial blood oxygen saturation (SaO 2 ) was 92 %. A detailed histological exam of the tumour revealed that it was diffuse large B cell lymphoma. There were no evidence of extra-cardiac lymphoma present, thus the final diagnosis was primary cardiac lymphoma. When the patient recovered from the surgery, she decided to continue her chemotherapy treatment at a foreign oncology clinic. To the best of our knowledge, the patient went into remission after chemotherapy. Patient 2, a 64 year old female was diagnosed, with acute nonspecific idiopathic pericarditis, and was referred to our clinic. She had a history of heart failure for six months prior to hospitalisation. On the day of arrival she presented with a decompensated heart failure. Tachypnoea, hepatomegaly and ascites were present. The patient had no complaints regarding the B symptoms. Arterial blood pressure was 100/70 mmHg. CBC and CPT were within normal limits. HIV tests were negative, the patient was immunocompetent. TTE revealed a severe dilatation of the right atrium and right ventricle, a large tumour in the right side of the heart and fluid accumulation in the pericardial sac. In order to specify the diagnosis a pericardiocentesis, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and percutaneous transvenous biopsy (PTVB) of the tumour were performed. The pericardial fluid exam showed that it was transudate with no cells. The MRI revealed a tumour in the right atrium appendage, which was invading the right atrium and ventricle and visceral pericardium. The large tumour (10 x 7.2 x 8 cm) was obstructing the right ventricle, the IVS was pushed towards the left ventricle and slightly interfering with its function (end systolic volume of the LV was 26 ml, end diastolic volume of the LV was 53 ml and LV EF was 52 %, cardiac index was 1. 8 l/min/m 2 ) . PTVB of the tumour showed mild myocardial fibrosis. 11 days later the patient's condition started to worsen. An open chest biopsy of the tumour was performed. A fast intra-operative histological exam of the tumour revealed that it was malignant. Because the tumour was inoperable, a decision to perform a Fontan procedure was made. It was intended to stabilise the patient's hemodynamics. After the surgery the patient's general condition was satisfactory. She was extubated twelve hours later. Breathing was spontaneous and SaO 2 was 90 %. Eight hours later, the patient's condition began to worsen. She was re-intubated. Asystole developed and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation was initiated. All means to save her life were ineffective. The patient passed away. Detailed histological exam of the tumour revealed that it was a diffuse large B cell lymphoma (immunophenotype: non-germinal centre, CD20-positive, CD10-negative, BCL2-positive, BCL6-positive, MUM1-positive, CD23negative, CD30-negative, EBER-negative) .
