A 48-year-old male presented to the emergency room with a one-week history of mild dyspnea, On the sixth day, thoracic ultrasound showed volume loss of the right hemithorax with minimal pleural effusion. On the seventh day, an exploratory thoracotomy was performed and the findings were as follows: massive hepatization of the right lung; right pleural effusion and fibrosis; fibropurulent pericarditis with diffuse areas of pericardial thickening; and cardiac tamponade (500 cm 3 of purulent fluid). In addition, the vena cava, pulmonary veins, pulmonary arteries, aorta, and pericardium were engulfed by a fibrin layer; the pulmonary arteries were stiff and dilated. The patient died during the procedure. Death was the consequence of complicated sepsis caused by S. pneumoniae, serotype 1. A 53-year-old male with severe pneumonia was transferred from another hospital. He had dry cough, and chest pain. In the last 48 h, the symptoms had worsened, with tachycardia (140 bpm) and increasing dyspnea. The physical examination revealed hypotension (blood pressure, 90/60 mmHg) and tachypnea (26 breaths/min). Auscultation of the thorax revealed signs of rightsided pleural effusion. Laboratory data revealed marked elevation of inflammatory and infectious parameters: white blood cell count, 29.10 × 10 9 cells/L (94.3% neutrophils, 2.9% lymphocytes, and 2.6% basophils); serum C-reactive protein, 57.3 mg/dL; serum sodium, 120 mEq/L; and serum potassium, 4.7 mEq/L. Arterial blood gas analysis demonstrated severe hypoxemia (PaO 2 , 39.4 mmHg; PaCO 2 , 25.2 mmHg; and pH, 7.47). A chest X-ray revealed opacities in the middle and lower fields of the right lobe, accompanied by enlargement of the cardiac silhouette . Empirical antibiotic treatment with ceftriaxone and levofloxacin was started. An electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with diffuse ST segment elevation. Thoracentesis showed exudative pleural effusion (pH, 7.17; glucose, 45 mg/dL; protein, 38 g/dL; and lactate dehydrogenase , 1,425 IU/L). Staining of the pleural fluid revealed grampositive diplococci. A chest tube was inserted in order to drain the empyema. The patient reported some relief after the drainage; however, because of worsening of respiratory failure and the need to maintain a high FiO 2 (80%), he was admitted to the ICU. Microbiological studies, including urinary antigen testing, sputum culture, and culture of the pleural fluid, were positive for S. pneumoniae that was penicillin-and erythromycinsusceptible at minimum inhibitory concentrations < 0.25 µg/ml and < 0.03 µg/mL, respectively). Echocardiography showed severe pericardial effusion (without signs of compression or hemodynamic impairment) and mild pulmonary hypertension with tricuspid regurgitation, although the other valves were functioning normally. A chest X-ray performed on the second day of hospitalization showed increased heart size and new pulmonary infiltrate. On the fourth day, tracheal intubation was required because the patient showed worsening of his clinical condition and deterioration of blood gas analysis. The patient was hemodynamically unstable, which called for aggressive measures. A second pericardiocentesis was performed and yielded 480 ml of seropurulent fluid. The condition of the patient improved after an infusion of norepinephrine (0.8 µg/kg per min). Unfortunately, he could not be stabilized.Streptococcus pneumoniae-associated pneumonia complicated by purulent pericarditis: case series http://dx.doi.org/10.1590/S1806-37132015000000010 a four-day history of flu with cough and fever (39.4°C), having recently complained of dyspnea and progressive edema of the lower extremities. Physical examination revealed hypotension (blood pressure, 80/50 mmHg) and tachycardia (140 bpm). Auscultation of the thorax showed decreased breath sounds in the right lung and crackles in the left lung base. At admission, a chest X-ray revealed right pleural effusion and a CT scan showed right pleural effusion with collapse of the right lower and middle lobes associated with extensive effusion. Laboratory tests at admission revealed a white blood cell count of 30.2 × 10 9 cells/L (92% neutrophils and 3.6% lymphocytes), a platelet count of 956 × 10 9 /L, a serum C-reactive protein level of 15.84 mg/dL, a serum creatinine concentration of 1.32 mg/dL, a serum sodium level of 135 mEq/L, and a serum potassium level of 5.6 mEq/L. A chest X-ray performed on the second day of hospitalization showed progression of the disease process: an opacity involving nearly all of the right lung and further enlargement of cardiopericardial silhouette . Echocardiography showed severe pericardial effusion affecting the entire cardiac silhouette. Pericardiocentesis yielded 640 mL of exudative fluid, the culture of which was negative. Pericardial and thoracic drainage was performed; purulent fluid was obtained in a sterile manner from the chest drain. Examination of the pleural fluid showed a pH of 6.95, a glucose level of 5 mg/dL, proteins at 47.4 g/L, and an LDH content of 5,347 U/L. A second chest X-ray showed consolidation in the right lung, minimal pleural fluid, and a normal cardiac silhouette . A urinary pneumococcal antigen test was negative. Pleural fluid culture was positive for S. pneumoniae that was susceptible to erythromycin, levofloxacin, and penicillin. The isolate was S. pneumoniae serotype 1. The patient received empirical antibiotic treatment with the piperacillin-tazobactam combination (4.5 g/8 h) and levofloxacin (500 mg twice a day for 5 days). The latter was continued because the pneumococcus was susceptible to it. The patient was discharged on the twelfth day, after withdrawal of the pericardial and pleural drains.
A 26-year-old female from Bahrain, with no relevant medical history, was brought to the A B Chest X-ray showing an opacity involving nearly the entire right lung, together with enlargement of the cardiac silhouette, before and after pericardial and thoracic drainage (A and B, respectively). Note consolidation in the right lower lobe with mild pleural effusion and normal cardiac silhouette after drainage. emergency room. At presentation, the patient had cough with purulent expectoration, fever, and chest pain. She presented with tachypnea (34 breaths/min), hypotension (blood pressure, 85/55 mmHg), and tachycardia (144 bpm). Physical examination revealed bilateral crackles in the lower lung fields. Laboratory data were remarkable for elevation of inflammatory and infectious parameters: white blood cell count, 11 × 10 9 cells/L (68.2% neutrophils and 22.3% lymphocytes); platelet count, 573 × 10 9 /L; serum C-reactive protein, 6 mg/dL; serum sodium, 142 mEq/L; serum potassium, 3.7 mEq/L; and serum creatinine, 0.83 mg/dL. A chest X-ray showed an enlarged cardiac silhouette and bilateral pulmonary opacities . An echocardiogram revealed massive pericardial effusion with signs of cardiac tamponade. Pericardiocentesis was performed, yielding 600 cm 3 of exudative pericardial effusion. J :389-394 fluid. A CT scan of the chest showed pneumonia in the left lower lobe, bilateral pleural effusion, and moderate pericardial effusion . Thoracentesis was performed and yielded 1,050 mL of exudative fluid. Laboratory tests yielded the following data: white blood cell count, 11.78 × 10 9 cells/L (84.3% neutrophils, 4.3% lymphocytes, and 9.1% monocytes); platelet count, 512 × 10 9 /L; serum C-reactive protein, 31.27 mg/dL; serum creatinine, 0.94 mg/dL; serum sodium, 133 mEq/L; and serum potassium, 3.72 mEq/L. Examination of the pleural fluid showed a pH of 7.16, a glucose level of 4.5 mg/ dL, proteins at 49.1 g/L, and an LDH content of 1,385 U/L. A urinary pneumococcal antigen test was positive. Pleural fluid culture was positive for S. pneumoniae. The patient was treated for four weeks with amoxicillin-clavulanate (2.2 g/8 h, i.v.) plus levofloxacin (500 mg twice a day), together with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (ibuprofen, 800 mg/day), after which there A CT scan showed bilateral pleural effusion, abundant pericardial effusion, and bilateral alveolar opacities . The patient was admitted to the ICU. Supportive treatment was started, as was empirical antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone (2 g/24 h) plus levofloxacin (500 mg twice per day), as well as a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (ibuprofen). It was necessary to drain the pericardial effusion multiple times. Various tests were performed: pleural fluid culture; blood culture; serological tests for atypical bacteria; and RT-PCR for respiratory viruses. In addition, we screened for tuberculosis (with a PPD test and enzyme-linked immunospot assay). A urinary pneumococcal antigen test was positive. Cytological studies of the pericardial effusion were negative for malignancy. On the third day after admission, the clinical condition of the patient worsened and treatment was therefore started with methylprednisolone (1 mg/kg per day), which initially produced a promising response (decrease in the serum C-reactive protein level, a decrease in heart rate, and improvement of general status). On the fifth day, the condition of the patient deteriorated, with increasing pericardial effusion. The patient showed worsening respiratory distress, with an increase in the FiO 2 requirement (from 0.24 to 0.60). Drainage of the pleural effusion resulted in no improvement. At that time, she required intubation and mechanical ventilation. On the seventh day, she showed impaired ventilation, caused by decreased lung compliance and difficulties in maintaining oxygenation. Consequently, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was started. However, because there was no subsequent improvement in the respiratory parameters, the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was stopped and the patient died.
A 57-year-old male presented with fever (38.9°C), chest pain, cough, and progressive dyspnea. The patient exhibited tachypnea (34 breaths/min) and tachycardia (134 bpm). Auscultation revealed decreased breath sounds in both lung bases, with crackles on the left. A chest X-ray revealed bilateral pleural opacities and enlargement of the cardiac silhouette .
