A 65-year-old man presented with abdominal pain 1 month after open surgical correction of a 54-mm abdominal aortic aneurysm with a Dacron interposition tube graft. The patient had a history of ischemic heart disease, hypertension, active smoking, diabetes type II, alcohol-induced cirrhosis of the liver (CHILD B), and an allergy to aspirin. The patient had undergone an ileal resection in the past for an inflammatory neoplasm. On admission, blood tests did not show elevation of the inflammatory markers. Computed tomographic angiography (CTA) revealed a posterior aortic pseudoaneurysm at the level of the distal anastomosis. The lesion was saccular, with diameters of 28×18 mm; it had a hardly perceivable short and narrow neck ( and B). There were no signs of periprosthetic air, fluid collections, or other findings suggestive of intra-abdominal infection. At the multidisciplinary vascular team meeting, it was decided to perform an early correction with an endovascular approach, given the short time interval after the previous surgical procedure. The morphology of the aortic AFA and its position at the level of the aortic bifurcation precluded the use of a covered stent, so coil embolization was considered the first choice. The patient was scheduled for the procedure on an outpatient basis (5 weeks after the initial procedure). The left common femoral artery was accessed percutaneously under local anesthesia, and a 4F introducer (Ultimum EV; St Jude Medical, St Paul, MN, USA) was placed. On standard digital subtraction angiography ( and D), the lesion was hardly visible, with slow filling through its small neck. Three-dimensional rotational angiography (3D-RA) clearly delineated the AFA. Subsequently, the 3D-RA was used as a 3D roadmap to cannulate the entry of the AFA with a 2.7-F microcatheter with guidewire (Progreat; Terumo Medical Corporation, Somerset, NJ, USA) without further use of contrast medium, and the catheter was advanced into the aneurysm itself ( and F). A pushable hydrogelcoated coil (3-×40-mm Azur P18; Terumo) was advanced through the microcatheter, with the goal to " sandwich " the neck of the false aneurysm between the distal and proximal end of the 0.018-inch coil. After pushing out part of the coil, the microcatheter was retracted in order to have the coil pass through the neck while partially curled up inside the aneurysm sac and let the remainder of the coil curl up at the aortic side. The first coil migrated completely into the aneurysm sac. A second coil was subsequently placed as intended at the level of the aneurysm neck. Total duration of the procedure was 60 minutes, and the patient was discharged the same day. A control CTA ( and B) performed 12 days after the procedure revealed correct placement of the coil within the aneurysm neck, complete thrombosis of the AFA, and sac size reduction to 21×14 mm. Nine months after the procedure, the patient underwent a second control CT ( and D) that revealed complete reabsorption of the AFA; no sign of the aneurysm sac was visible, with a noticeable regression of the posterior aortic wall toward the spine (as seen by loss of distance between the 2 coils, ).
