The patient was a 59 year old man with a recent history of rectal bleeding and change in bowel habits. The patient had previous medical history of dyslipidemia and was not taking any medication. Family history was unremarkable for neoplasms. Physical examination showed a patient in good general status, and palpation of the abdomen and rectal examination were normal. Colonoscopy showed a stenotic, ulcerated lesion at 20 cm of the anal verge and biopsy revealed a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Laboratory investigations showed normal CEA (1.9 ng/mL) and CA 19.9 (14 U/mL). Liver function tests were normal, apart from slight elevation (130 U/L) of gama-glutamyl transpeptidase [(GGT) normal < 55]. Computed Tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen and pelvis revealed no distant metastases . Sigmoidectomy was performed and the postoperative period was complicated by anastomotic breakdown and pelvic sepsis. Re-laparotomy, drainage and loop ileostomy were performed but the postoperative course was otherwise uneventful. Pathology showed a well differentiated adenocarcinoma (T3N1bMx) of the rectum-sigmoid transition and the patient underwent 12 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy with capecitabine and oxaliplatin. One year after surgery, a 28 mm hypodense liver nodule on segment 8 was discovered on routine postoperative CT ; this nodule was not present on preoperative CT. Blood levels of CEA and CA 19.9 remained normal (1.6 ng/mL and 11 U/mL respectively). Liver function tests were unremarkable, with a sustained elevation of GGT (143 U/L). A diagnosis of liver metastasis was made and after discussion in our multidisciplinary meeting a resection was proposed (and accepted) to the patient. During laparotomy, perioperative ultrasound confirmed a 30 mm hyperechoic lesion in segment 8, not typical of metastases, and no other liver lesions. A right hepatectomy and closure of loop ileostomy were performed. Postoperative period was uneventful and the patient was discharged on the 6 th postoperative day. No further treatment was prescribed. On gross examination the liver parenchyma had congestive areas with no evidence of nodule. Histologically there was haphazardly distributed sinusoidal congestion and dilatation with variable intensity. In some areas sinusoidal dilatation was intense with hemorrhage, trabecular atrophy, focal peliosis and perisinuosoidal fibrosis and the hepatic veins were normal. ( , 4, 5 and 6).
One year after liver resection and two years after resection of the primary the patient is well, without clinical, biological or radiological evidence of recurrence.
