A 67-year-old man visited his physician complaining of prolonged fever for the previous 5 days. His past medical history included dyslipidemia, hypertension, percutaneous coronary intervention, artificial graft replacement surgery for the right common iliac artery and coil embolization for the right internal iliac artery. Even after 3 days of administering intravenous ceftriaxone and oral tosufloxacin, his fever did not improve, and the patient was referred to our hospital for further consultation. On arrival, his vital signs were as follows: blood pressure, 118/59 mmHg; heart rate, 84 bpm; and body temperature, 38.5°C. There were no gastrointestinal symptoms. Physical examination did not reveal any specific findings, but laboratory data showed signs of high inflammation (serum Creactive protein level, 13.41 mg/dL). Echocardiography showed no evidence for infective endocarditis. Contrastenhanced computed tomography (CECT) showed a newly formed aneurysm in his left internal iliac artery, with a maximum size of 28 mm, which was surrounded by a dirty fat sign ( , B). Positron-emission tomography demonstrated a high uptake in the aneurysm. Taken together, the clinical course and radiological findings strongly suggested the presence of an infective aneurysm. Blood culture revealed gram-negative spiral-shaped organisms, which was first identified as Campylobacter fetus subsp. Venerealis by means of a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDITOF MS) analysis. The result of antimicrobial susceptibility testing performed by the E-test in a condition of 10% capneic incubation showed the minimum inhibitory concentrations of the pathogen to be as follows: ceftriaxone, 8 μg/mL; ceftazidime, 16 μg/mL; imipenem, 0.064 μg/mL; meropenem, 0.032 μg/mL; levofloxacin, 0.064 μg/mL; gentamicin, 0.5 μg/mL; and clarithromycin, 2 μg/mL. Treatment was initiated with the intravenous administration of cefotaxime and levofloxacin. One week later, although the fever had disappeared and the serum inflammatory reactions had also improved, follow-up CECT demonstrated the infective aneurysm to have become irregularly enlarged with deformation . As a result, an emergency operation was performed. The aneurysm strongly adhered to the surrounding tissues, but it was successfully resected. No organisms were detected from a bacterial culture of the resected arterial wall. Antibiotic therapy with levofloxacin was continued after the surgery, and the postoperative course was stable. The patient was discharged from the hospital 2 weeks after the operation and completed a 4-week course of levofloxacin without any signs of recurrence.
