A 33-year-old Japanese woman at 40 weeks gestation was admitted to the maternity hospital due to syncope. Her syncope soon disappeared, and labor was initiated. Forced delivery and precipitous labor were performed in an hour. After delivery, bleeding from the perineum and vaginal wall persisted despite suturing the wound. Because the total amount of hemorrhage reached 2,700 mL and the patient's Hb values declined to 3.6 g/dL, she was transferred to the emergency department of our hospital. An initial diagnosis of atonic bleeding was confirmed, and bimanual pressure hemostasis was conducted. However, the bleeding could not be stopped, and the patient went into a coma, hemorrhagic shock, acute respiratory failure with immeasurable oxygen saturation, and DIC. Head computed tomography (CT) was performed to assess the disturbance of consciousness with unremarkable findings. Enhanced CT on admission suggested ahemorrhage from the left vaginal wall. She was intubated and admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). The Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score was 10 points on admission to ICU. Cefmetazon (CMZ) was administered. Red cell concentrate (RCC), fresh frozen plasma (FFP), platelet-rich plasma, gabexate mesilate, urinastatin, human anti-thrombin III, and Eptacog alfa (a recombinant human factor VIIa) were administered to treat DIC. Because the vaginal wall bleeding could not be controlled, angiography was performed. The hemorrhage was finally controlled through the obstruction of the left internal iliac artery by acoil insertion. However, hepatic and renal dysfunction occurred the next day leading to multiple organ failure (MOF). The patient's serum creatinine (SCr) levels increased from 0.78 to 4.35 mg/dL in 48 hours, which met the definition of AKI. The AKI stage in this case was categorized as " Failure " according to the Risk, Injury, Failure; Loss, End-Stage Renal Disease criteria and stage III according to the Acute Kidney Injury Network criteria. In addition, hepatic failure was observed, and the patient's aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase, and total bilirubin levels were 4,079 IU/L, 1,685 IU/L, 457 IU/L, 5,569 IU/L, and 2.4 mg/dL, respectively. An increased level of creatine kinase (13,338 IU/L) was observed; myoglobinuria was considered as a possible cause of AKI. In the patient's urinalysis, hematuria was positive by the dipstick method (3+), and the urinary sediment was positive, showing a red blood cell count of " 100/hpf. Because the urinary sediment was positive, myoglobinuria was ruled out. Extremely high levels of zinc coproporphyrin 1 (6.2 pmol/mL; normal range <1.6 pmol/mL) and STN antigen (471.3 U/mL; normal range <45.0 U/mL) were detected in the maternal blood. Although hemorrhagic shock was strongly associated with this patient's hemodynamic state, a diagnosis of AFE was confirmed on the basis of the severe clinical course of precipitous labor and cardiovascular collapse after delivery, and AFE was considered the cause of DIC and MOF. The platelet count, prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), fibrinogen, and fibrin/fibrinogen degradation product were 9.4×10 4 /μL, ! 5%, " 240 s, immeasurable, and 362.0 μg/mL, respectively. When we considered AFE to be the underlying cause of DIC, the obstetrical DIC score was 23 points on admission. The patient did not have a significant medical history. Her father had hypertension. She did not smoke, drink alcohol, or take any medications. She had no known allergies. Upon examination on the day of consultation, her height was 154 cm and her body weight was 80.0 kg (prenatal body weight, 62.0 kg). The patient's vital signs and oxygen saturation were stable, and the following measurements were recorded: body temperature, 36.8°C; blood pressure, 104/72 mmHg; heart rate, 109 beats/min and regular; respiratory rate, 19 breaths/min; oxygen saturation, 100% on mechanical ventilation [continuous positive airway pressure and pressure support (PS) mode; FiO2 0.5, PS of 8 cm H2O, positive endexpiratory pressure of 10 cm H2O]. No heart murmur was audible. She had attenuating respiratory sounds in both her lungs. Bilateral lung congestion gradually progressed, as observed by chest radiography, until the day of consultation . Bilateral leg edema was present. On day 3 (the day of consultation), the patient's plateletVolume (mL) Day count was 5.5×10 4 /μL after platelet transfusion and DIC treatment, Hb levels were 8.0 g/dL, and the hematocrit value was 22.6% after RCC transfusion. The PT recovered from ! 5 to 30%, and the APTT declined from " 240 to 42.8 s, suggesting an improvement of DIC. The fractional excretion of sodium (FENa) was 7.70%, and the sodium excretion in the urine was 132 mEq/day and 53.1 mEq/L on day 2. These results suggested that AKI was caused by renal injury. We decided to initiate renal replacement therapy (RRT) for oliguria and hypervolemia due to AKI on day 3. As the patient's blood pressure was unstable, we selected continuous hemodiafiltration (CHDF) as the treatment modality of RRT. In our hospital, we could not continue continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) overnight due to the lack of clinical engineering staff at night. We conducted CHDF as the modality of CRRT with diafiltrate and replacement fluid: Subpack-Bi (Nipro Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan) hemodialyzer: cellulose triacetate (CTA) 1.1 m 2 [UT-1100S (Nipro Co., Ltd.)], blood flow rate (QB): 100 mL/min, dialysate flow rate (QD) + filtration flow rate (QF): 900-1,070 mL/hr, replacement flow rate (QS): 400-530 mL/hr, and anticoagulant: nafamostat mesilate (30 mg/hr). The activated clotting time of the blood circuit was frequently monitored to minimize the risk of additional bleeding by the anticoagulant. By removing the excess water through CHDF, the patient's congestive heart failure was controlled, which led to a wellbalanced volume status over time . The patient resumed spontaneous respiration as the congestion was alleviated. Although we attempted to wean her from ventilator support, she did not easily wake up possibly due to the accumulation of sedative drugs. We had administered midazolam, a benzodiazepine, to keep the depth of sedation while targeting a score of-4 on the Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale. Midazolam has a half-life of 3-11 hours, and the active metabolite accumulates with prolonged infusion, leading to the necessity of removal of the drug (5). Furthermore, because ventilator-associated pneumonitis may have contributed to the patient's condition, as assessed by her respiratory condition and clinical progress, the antibiotic drug was changed from CMZ to piperacillin/tazobactam (PIPC/TAZ). We altered the modality of RRT to intermittent hemodialysis on day 9, after removing the sedative drugs. On days 9 and 10, we performed hemodialysis for 4 hours with dialyzer: polymethylmethacrylate 1.0 m 2 [BK-1.0F (
, QB: 120 mL/min, and QD: 300 mL/min. From day 11, we performed HD for 4 hours with dialyzer: CTA 1.5 m 2 , QB: 150 mL/min, and QD: 450 mL/min. As a result, her consciousness and respiratory condition improved with successful weaning from mechanical ventilation. She was finally extubated on day 14 with appropriate spontaneous respiration. Her urine volume substantially increased from day 17, with stable hemodynamics, which led to the improvement of her renal function. We successfully withdrew RRT on day 20, and her renal function remained stable . She recovered and significant rehabilitation occurred in the general ward. She was discharged on day 35, and she is currently visiting our internal outpatient clinic to monitor her renal function.
