A 54-year-old white female with VEDS (genetic tested and COL3A1 mutation – c.709G>A, Gly237Arg-confirmed) was referred to our unit with a spontaneously acute onset of abdominal pain and subsequent hypotension. Computed tomography (CT) showed splenic rupture with pericapsular hematoma ( and B). The patient had a past medical history of multiple visceral aneurysms and had previously undergone the elective endovascular exclusion of a 3.2 cm saccular hepatic artery aneurysm in 2009 . She was on aspirin 81 mg daily since having a myocardial infarction secondary to coronary dissection in 2001. She also had an extensive family history of connective tissue disorder. Her son died at the age of 28 from spontaneous aortic rupture. She had been followed annually in the vascular surgery clinic and had last undergone abdominal imaging in 2014 showing no residual aneurysms. During the follow-up, she had multiple abdominal imaging studies that showed no abnormalities in the spleen . At the time of exploratory laparotomy, she was found to have large volume hemoperitoneum. The spleen was ruptured and with no intact splenic capsule. The splenic artery was unremarkable for aneurysmal changes. Splenectomy was completed. No additional vascular or bowel pathology was noted upon inspection of the abdomen. The wound bed was drained. The postoperative course was uneventful and the patient was discharged home 5 days later. The spleen micropathology showed red pulp congestion and no other diagnostic abnormalities.The biochemical basis of VEDS is a deficiency in the synthesis or secretion of type III procollagen, which is predominantly distributed in the skin, wall of blood vessels, and hollow organs. 7 This distribution explains its clinical manifestations. The rarity of this disorder and phenotypic diversity make the diagnosis challenging and may explain why most patients are not aware of their condition before symptoms manifest. Clinical diagnosis is established from at least 2 of 4 major clinical criteria: presence of distinctive facial features 8 (eg, acrogeria, prominent cheekbones, sunken or bulging eyes, and pinched nose); thin translucent skin, often described as soft or ''velvety''; arterial, intestinal, or uterine fragility or rupture; and excessive bruising/hematomas. 7 The last criterion represents the most common sign of VEDS. 9,10 Vascular dissections or ruptures, gastrointestinal perforations, or organ ruptures are the first symptoms in 70% of patients. 11 Other possible complications are obstetrical complications, rupture of tendons or muscles, spontaneous pneumothoraces or pneumohemothoraces, and chronic joint subluxations. 12 Family history supports the diagnosis, but 50% of patients have de novo mutations and present without family history. 12 Diagnosis can be confirmed either by biochemical assays showing qualitative or quantitative abnormalities in type III collagen secretion or by molecular demonstrations of COL3A1 gene mutation. 10,12 Organ rupture is a rare but hazardous complication and may involve the heart, the spleen or the liver, or the uterus. 13 Organ rupture and arterial rupture are responsible for 85% of deaths in patients with VEDS. 13 Splenic rupture in VEDS is barely described in literature, with only 2 cases reported todate. In the first report, the patient was a 32-year-old man and the diagnosis was made at autopsy; 4 the other report described a 35-year-old woman who progressed with disseminated intravascular coagulation and death after the emergency splenectomy. 5 In both cases, the patients had VEDS diagnosed many years before. The association between VEDS and splenic peliosis is extremely rare and has been described only once in the literature. Peliosis is a rare entity of unknown etiopathogenesis characterized by multiple cyst-like, blood-filled cavities within parenchymatous organs. 14 Its occurrence has been related to various underlying conditions including infectious diseases, drug toxicity, and malignancies. 15 van Bon et al described a spontaneous splenic rupture due to peliosis in a patient further diagnosed with VEDS. 16 The authors suggest that the association between these entities might be that the genetic defect resulting in collagen reduction in VEDS also leads to dilated sinusoids and pathologic rupture of the splenic capsule. In our case, no evidence of splenic peliosis was found in the pathological analysis. Due to extreme vascular fragility, surgical interventions in patients with VEDS require precautionary measures including delicate and atraumatic handling of tissues to avoid arterial damage. In addition, extra care must be given while placing retractors to avoid bowel or mesentery damage. In general, operative treatment is reserved for frank or imminent lifethreatening bleeding. 12,17 Spontaneous splenic rupture is a treatable condition and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of chest and abdominal pain in patients with VEDS. Currently, there are no specific treatments or risk reduction strategies for this complication of VEDS. One study suggested that the beta-blocker celiprolol may reduce vascular complications. 18 Patients with VEDS need to be closely followed and be aware of the situations they need to seek emergent treatment. It is also recommended the use of a medical alert bracelet. A high degree of clinical suspicion is necessary to make a prospective diagnosis, which should prompt precautionary measures, genetic counseling, and early symptomatic treatment. 17 Knowledge of the diagnosis may influence the management of surgery, pregnancy, and major complications.
