A 47-year-old male presented with recurrent dizziness, generalized weakness, easy fatiguablility, accompanied with discontinuous abdominal pain, dyspepsia and constipation for six years. He had been examined with gastroendoscope and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head for several times, but no specific lesion could be identified. Gradually the skin of his fingers and toes became sclerotic. At the same time, multiple, non-itchy petechiae, purpura and ecchymoses lesions can been found around the eyelids, as well as on the tongue, cheek, neck and the higher chest wall bilaterally ( f). Biopsy of his palmar skin showed scleroderma-like changes. He had been treated as chronic gastritis and scleroderma. However, his symptoms were aggressive and he came to our hospital. His blood examinations and stool anlysis were found within normal limits. Serum amyloid A protein (SAA) was also negative. Skin biopsy of the forehead lesion showed pink amorphous, eosinophilic fissured masses in the dermis with Haemotoxylin & Eosin staining . Moreover, it showed purple amorphous fissured masses in dermis with Crystal Violet staining , which prompted the deposition of amyloid. Besides, histopathologic examination of the gastric mucosal revealed the extensive deposition of amyloid in the gland stomach tissues and vessel wall. The tissue displayed orange–red color with Congo Red staining under the light microscopy * Correspondence: mao_yp@163.com 1 Department of Dermatology, Second Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 510120, China Full list of author information is available at the end of the article , and showed characteristic apple-green birefringence under polarized light . Moreover, it showed pale orange–red after potassium permanganate pretreatment , consistent with the diagnosis of PSA (light chains, AL). Bone marrow biopsy showed a proliferation of 14 % mature plasma cells. Proteinuria electrophoresis showed the presence of Bence-Jones protein. Immunofixation of the concentrated urine detected light chains of LAM-type. Serum and urine immunofixation electrophoresis (IFE) were both positive for monoclonal protein. Analysis of the results showed M proteinemia of IgA-LAM. Quantitative immunoglobulin studies showed a serum IgG value of 3.82 g/l (normal 7–16 g/l), IgA 2.44 g/l (0.7– 4 g/l) and IgM 0.20 g/l (0.5–2.20 g/l). Surprisingly, according to the whole abdomen Computed Tomography and ultrasound, we found the patient relied on a solitary right kidney as the left residue was found in the pelvic cavity without any sign of blood flow. Urinalysis showed occult blood and protein quantitative testing for urine protein was 4.1 g/24 h, and blood creatinine and urea nitrogen were in the high level. He was treated with prednisone (40 mg/d), thalidomide, colchicine tablets and gastric mucosa protective drugs. After a month, skin lesion and digestive symptoms improved, but he left hospital because of economic cause.
