P, a nine year old girl presented with periorbital puffiness and painless diminution of vision for one month. There was no associated diplopia, redness, or watering from the eyes, though she complained of headache. Her visual impairment progressed in spite of correction of her refractive error. On examination, blood pressure was normal. She had bilateral periorbital edema, brisk deep tendon reflexes, and upgoing planters. Eye evaluation revealed refractive error with fundus showing pale disc indicating left eye optic atrophy. Her Hb was 9.2 gm% with an ESR of 26 mm/hr. The rest of the tests, including liver function and kidney function, were normal. However, she had hypergammaglobulinemia with a total serum protein of 7.3 g/dl, albumin 2.9 gm/dl, and a urine analysis showing 2þ albumin, subnephrotic range proteinuria, but with no active sediments. Her immunological work up showed antinuclear antibody positive by immunofluorescence (4þ diffuse pattern), anti ds-DNA titers high 1188 IU/ml (>75 IU/ml), with low complement levels (C3) (38 mg/dl). Antiphospholipid antibodies were negative. MRIs of brain and orbits were normal. Kidney biopsy showed normal histopathology with Ig G, Ig A, Ig M deposits in the mesangium along with a) followed by oral prednisolone 2 mg/kg.day À1. She was subsequently given six pulses cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 .dose À1 ). After nine months of therapy, she also developed painless optic neuropathy in the right eye. Since she had already received seven pulses of cyclophosphamide, she was given four doses of Rituximab (375 mg/m 2 ) at weekly intervals. Cyclophosphamide was continued at three-monthly interval to a total of 12 doses, and she was later maintained on azathioprine, low dose prednisolone, and hydroxychloroquin. Currently, after four years, she remains in remission, with visual acuity of 6/6 (both eyes with glasses). P, a14 year old girl presented with prolonged fever for six months. She was noted to have a distinct malar rash, which lead to suspicion of SLE. Hb was 9.2 gm%, with low platelets of 90,000. ESR was raised at 55 mm/hr. Urinalysis was normal. Anti nuclear antibodies were positive (4þ diffuse pattern), anti ds-DNA antibody titer and complement levels were normal. SLE anticoagulant was positive, but anticardiolipin antibodies were negative. She was started on full dose prednisolone, following which her platelet counts normalized. Steroid sparing drugs, azathioprine, and hydroxychloroquine were added, and the prednisolone was tapered. She remained well-controlled on these drugs for the next two years, but developed posterior sub capsular cataracts with changes of glaucoma. However her fundus was normal. After six years of therapy the child developed renal involvement, manifesting as nephrotic range proteinuria, raised anti ds-DNA, with low complements. She was managed again with prednisolone only as her parents refused renal biopsy. Fortunately she went into renal remission. However, eye evaluation at that time revealed discordant visual acquity with left eye (6/9) as compared to the right (6/6) with evidence of relative afferent pupillary defect on the left side. Visual evoked potential study showed increased latencies on the left side, thus pointing towards probable optic nerve neuropathy. She was given high dose methyl prednisolone boluses for five days, followed by monthly cyclophosphamide boluses. A subsequent MRI showed left optic atrophy with multifocal deep white matter lesions in B/L cerebral hemispheres, with likely involvement of optic radiations. Currently, at three years of follow-up, she is on prednisolone, HCQ, and aspirin, and is in clinical remission, both renal and ocular.
Lupus
