A 53-year-old woman with a past history of cholecystectomy was admitted with complaint of epigastric discomfort of 2-days duration. The pain was localized, and she reported bloating and nausea, but denied vomiting, fever, chills, melena, urinary or gastrointestinal complaints. Physical examination showed the patient was afebrile with stable vital signs. Her cardiovascular and respiratory examinations were normal. Abdominal examination demonstrated minimal tenderness on deep palpation of the epigastrium without distension, guarding, or rigidity. A complete blood count showed normal white blood cell count at 6.3 x 10 3 /μL and normal hemoglobin at 14.2 g/dL. Basic metabolic panel and liver enzymes were normal, and amylase and lipase levels were not elevated. Radiographs of the abdomen revealed normal bowel gas pattern, but a CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis showed circumferential thickening of the wall of the common hepatic artery and its right and left hepatic branches, with a narrowed but patent lumen, suggestive of vasculitis . The remaining arteries of the abdomen and pelvis were unremarkable. A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis taken 2 years prior had been unremarkable. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the visceral arteries of the abdomen and pelvis confirmed the findings. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) upon admission was elevated at 25 mm/hr (normal 0-17 mm/hr) and C-reactive protein (CRP) was elevated at 2.6 mg/dL (normal 0-1 mg/dL). Further history and examination was done to rule out systemic vasculitis in view of the elevated sedimentation rate. The patient denied any new rash, and her examination did not show a rash. She denied arthralgias, and her joint examination was unremarkable. She expressed symptoms of photosensitivity and Raynaud's phenomenon, which had become worse on estrogen therapy. TitleGiven the findings on CT scan and MRA with elevated sedimentation rate, evaluation for systemic vasculitis was performed with antinuclear antibody, cytoplasmic antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody, perinuclear neutrophil antibodies, rheumatoid factor, and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide, all of which were negative. A C4 complement level was normal at 24.6 mg/dL (range 14-40 mg/dL), C3 complement level was normal at 135 mg/dL (range 83-163 mg/dL), and total complement was also normal. Hepatitis B and C, Lyme serology, and cryoglobulin were also all negative. The patient was started on pulse dose methylprednisone 1000 mg intravenously daily for 3 days, after which her ESR and CRP normalized over the next 2 days, and her symptoms resolved. She was discharged home on prednisone. Prednisone therapy was later tapered, and during the taper, she did not have abdominal pain or gastrointestinal symptoms. Two weeks after prednisone was tapered, a CT scan of the abdomen was done and showed marked improvement in the thickening of the wall, as demonstrated by interval decrease in the soft tissue density surrounding the hepatic artery. The initial CT scan of the abdomen showed thickening of the wall of the hepatic artery and diminished luminal caliber. Several weeks later, the CT scan showed improvement in the thickening . At the 6-month follow-up, the patient denied abdominal pain, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate normalized to 12 mm/hr (normal 0-15). Follow-up CT of the abdomen showed significant interval decrease in the soft tissue density surrounding the common hepatic artery and its branches when compared to prior examination.
