A 43-year-old, smoker, after a femur fracture in 2008 on the right, was admitted to our centre due to acute symptomatic ischemia IIb according to the Rutherford classification of the right lower limb with acral manifestation. Problems appeared suddenly, when he was getting off a train and stepped from the elevated position. The patient came 6 hours after the event with a painful metatarsus and violet toes. The patient was examined additionally, an X-ray examination of the lower limb, without any evidence of bone trauma. Sonographic examination of popliteal artery excluded the syndrome of entrapment. The angiography of lower limb was carried out. The angiography confirmed incomplete convexity of the plantar arch and the obliteration of digital arteries . Local thrombolysis with a recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) in the dose of 0.9 mg/kg together with 5 000 heparin units, then 500 heparin units/hour, in an arterial infusion with partial recanalization was carried out with suboptimal outcome. We managed to unblock the digital arteries into the area of proximal phalanges. Distal obstruction continued . An intravenous vasodilatation therapy with Prostavasin combined with a hyperbaric chamber for 90 min during 5 days at max. 2.5 ATA (absolute atmosphere) was launched. During hospitalisation, analgesic therapy was administered to the patient repeatedly with intravenous and per os nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID). Subsequently, after this therapy, a local clinical improvement of the perfusion was observed. Another examination carried out; transesophageal echocardiography excluded a cardial thrombus. The patient was examined by laboratory, which excluded a procoagulant status. (Leiden mutation and mutation in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, MTFR, were excluded.) The patient was anticoagulated with warfarin. Despite this therapy, an ischemia occured gradually, including the surface loss of soft tissues mainly of the big toe and of the fourth toe . The patient was discharged early at his ownrequest for home and outpatient care. Then the patient rejected hospital admission. Warfarinization was recommended for patient's medication. In an examination after more than one year, the patient is after the amputation of the 3 rd , 4 th and 5 th toes with secondary healing and with a dry defect of the big toe, and with dry necrosis of the 2 nd toe.
