A 73-year-old African American woman with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and recently diagnosed immunoglobulin G MM, presented with 2 days' history of fever, nausea, vomiting and dizziness. She was found to be obtunded in our Emergency department and was intubated for airway protection. She was febrile (39.33°C, 102.8°F), but hemodynamically stable. She demonstrated mild respiratory distress, had rales and wheezes on auscultation, and edema in both lower extremities. Initial laboratory results  revealed pancytopenia, elevated creatinine and corrected calcium of 7.3mg/dL, other electrolytes were within normal limits. A chest radiograph revealed cardiomegaly and pulmonary edema. Ten days prior to admission she received one dose of ZA, three doses of bortezomib, and seven doses of daily lenalidomide in addition to weekly dexamethasone. A clinical diagnosis of neutropenic fever, acute renal failure and severe hypocalcemia was made. Treatment was started with intravenous vancomycin and cefepime. She was also given calcium gluconate boluses for her hypocalcemia. Even after 24 hours of treatment, her mental status did not improve. She remained febrile, her kidney functions worsened, and her calcium level became undetectable (<5mg/dL) and ionized calcium was 0.66mmol/L (see ). She was started on continuous intravenouscalcium gluconate infusion in addition to boluses, which still did not increase her calcium levels. We then tested for vitamin D levels which were found to be low (13ng/mL). The value of vitamin D was measured on the day in which renal function was most impaired (creatinine 8mg/dL). Intravenous paricalcitol was initiated, which did improve her calcium level, but, it did not revert to normal. Despite aggressive calcium replacement she remained persistently hypocalcemic and eventually developed tonic–clonic seizures. An electrocardiogram revealed a QT interval of 500ms using Bazett's formula. Her neuroimaging, however, was normal except for several small calvarium lytic lesions . Her family eventually made the decision to focus on comfort measures only, following which, she had a cardiac arrest and died on hospital day 17.
