A 52-year-old woman with a history of stage III colorectal cancer resected 2 years prior presented for routine follow-up. She reported fatigue to the nurse without other symptoms. The oncologist's evaluation revealed normal vital signs and a normal physical examination. A contrast-enhanced CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis was performed for routine staging and demonstrated a new 1.6-cm liver mass suspicious for malignancy. However, a large left main pulmonary artery filling defect along with 2 additional left lower lobe segmental PEs were also identified. This patient, whose scan suggests a likely recurrence of colorectal cancer has developed IPE involving the main pulmonary artery despite normal physical examination and vital signs. It is not uncommon to identify large and/or proximal PE incidentally in cancer patients, despite a lack of physical examination signs. A metaanalysis of studies published through 2009 found that ;50% of IPE occur in the main or lobar pulmonary arteries. 12 A 70-year-old man was recently discharged from the hospital where he underwent laparoscopic nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma. He completed only 1 week of prophylactic LMWH therapy in the postoperative period because he developed melena requiring transfusion of 2 units of packed red cells. Endoscopy revealed an ulcer in the gastric antrum without active bleeding. He was discharged ambulating and with normal renal function on postoperative day 12 and returned to the oncology clinic 2 weeks later for evaluation. He stated he felt well, was independently pursuing all activities of daily living, and was having normal daily bowel movements without melena. His vital signs were within normal range, and physical examination demonstrated normal respiration and a normal S1 and S2 with the exception of a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur that was present prior to the surgery. His laparoscopic wounds were healing as expected. A staging CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis with intravenous contrast revealed bilateral pulmonary nodules, slightly reduced in size and number from the prior scan. Also noted was a left lower lobe subsegmental pulmonary artery filling defect. This patient with presumed metastatic renal cell carcinoma has an incidental SSPE (ISSPE), or the unexpected finding of 1 or more filling defects occurring no more proximally than the subsegmental branches of the pulmonary arteries. He is asymptomatic and has had a recent surgery and prolonged hospitalization because of a bleeding episode that occurred while he was being treated with prophylactic doses of LMWH.
