A 37 year old Sri Lankan Sinhalese female presented to the Teaching Hospital Peradeniya, Sri Lanka with fever of one month duration. She complaints of productive cough of three week's duration with no history of haemoptysis or breathlessness. Fever was associated with anorexia and weight loss. She noticed painless left lower limb swelling of two weeks duration which had gradually extended up to the upper thigh three days before presenting to the hospital. She did not have any history of joint pain, photosensitivity rash or alopecia, deep vein thrombosis, recurrent abortion, intrauterine death or thrombotic stroke. She did not have risky behavior or history of immobilization. She was neither an alcoholic nor smoker and denied use of oral contraceptives. On examination she was febrile and pale but not tachypnic or tachycardic. She was normotensive and the pulse oxymetric reading was 96% on air. Chest auscultation revealed scattered bilateral coarse crepitations which were more on the right side. Abdominal examination was normal including per vaginal and per rectal examination. Cardiovascular and neurological examinations were clinically normal. Her left lower limb was swollen up to the groin and there was tenderness over the calf. No evidence of cellulites was detected. On the third day of hospital admission she became dyspnoic with wide spread right sided coarse crepitations and reduced pulse oximetric reading of 93% on air. Laboratory finding on admission revealed relative neutrophil leucocytosis, hypochromic microcytic anaemia (haemoglobin 10.5 g %) with high Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP). The blood picture revealed, hypochromic microcytic anaemia with toxic granules and vacuolations in neutrophils indicating severe bacterial infection. Her renal and liver functions were normal. Chest X-ray on admission showed bilateral inflammatory shadows with a cavitatory lesion on the right apical region. Chest X-ray on the third day revealed wide spread inflammatory shadows involving whole right sided lung field . Computed tomographic pulmonary angiogram (CTPA) was done on the third day to exclude pulmonary embolism. She had rising mycoplasma antibody titre (four fold) with normal reticulocyte count and Coombs' test was negative. Her fasting blood sugar and lipid profile were normal. Human immune deficiency virus (HIV) and Hepatitis B and C viral infections were excluded. Antinuclear antibody (ANA) was negative. Acute DVT of the left lower limb causing total occlusion of veins below the internal iliac vein was confirmed by venous duplex. Ultrasound scan of abdomen and pelvis was normal with no lymphadinopathy. Mycobacterium tubercululosis bacillus was detected by sputum AFB (Acid fast Bacilli) staining and confirmed by culture. She was initially treated with intravenous clarythromycin for mycoplasma infection and was started on subcutaneous enoxaparin and oral warfarin for DVT. Enoxaparin was discontinued once the target International Normalizing Ratio (INR) was achieved. Initial warfarin 7 mg once a day could maintain her INR within 2–2.5. Once tuberculosis infection was confirmed, anti tuberculus treatment(ATT) was started (DOTS regimen under category-1). With initiation of ATT, a titrated warfarin dose up to 15 mg per day was given to maintain therapeutic INR. One month after initiating warfarin, a repeat duplex scan was done and revealed little blood flow without significant recanalisation or further extension of the thrombus. Two months after the commencement of ATT, thrombophilia screening according to the National Health Services (NHS) United Kingdom Foundation Trust guidelines for thrombophilia testing was planned . Protein S and C levels were normal with normal fibrinogen level. DRVVT (Dilute russell's viper venom test) and KCT (Kaolin clotting time) were negative. Next she was discharged on warfarin 15 mg once a day. She was reviewed at the medical clinic in a week and two weeks' time, and then she had the target INR. In subsequent clinic visits INR was in the sub therapeutic range (1.2 to 1.6). She had poor drug compliance and clinic follow up despite proper education of family members as well as the patient. She refused admission for in ward management. She defaulted clinic follow up and for about five months of initial presentation was admitted to a local hospital with sudden onset of difficulty in breathing with low blood pressure. She died a few minutes after admission. Large pulmonary embolism obstructing the left pulmonary artery was detected on post mortem examination.
