A 71-year-old white Caucasian woman was diagnosed with an immunoglobulin A (IgA) lambda multiple myeloma stage I in June 2011. At this time, she presented to the outward clinic of the Máxima Medical Centre Veldhoven with a painless soft tissue swelling near her right sternoclavicular joint. An immunocytological examination of this swelling showed an IgA lambda monoclonal plasma cell population analogical to an EMP. Further immunostaining tests were negative for CD56, and revealed a high MIB-1 index. Additional blood tests revealed normal kidney function, no anaemia, a normal calcium level, no quantifiable M-protein and no lytic bone lesions. A bone marrow biopsy showed a monoclonal IgA lambda plasma cell population (10 to 20% presence) and she was treated with local radiation therapy. One year later, she returned to the outward clinic with a swelling on her chest which was increasing in size. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of her thorax showed a soft tissue pre-sternal swelling, suspected to be an EMP. As with the first EMP, she was treated with radiation therapy. Two months after the development of her second EMP, she noticed some difficulty with swallowing and she experienced localised cervical pain. In the next few weeks, her ability to swallow deteriorated and eventually she could no longer eat solid food and started to lose weight. Her cervical pain increased with movement of her neck and was accompanied by tingling in both arms and hands. There was no loss of muscle power. At her presentation to the outpatient service, she was very anxious and was experiencing fear of suffocating. She had an extensive list of pain medication, however her pain was able to be brought under control. Her additional physical examination showed tense cervical muscles, no palpable swelling of her throat and no evidence of neurological loss. Her blood examination showed a hemoglobin level of 7.4mmol/L, a creatinine level of 62umol/L, a calcium level of 2.24mmol/L and an increased IgA lambda of 17.3g/L (compared to 6.0g/L at her diagnosis in 2011, ). A swallow X-ray with oral contrast did not show any dysfunction or limitations in her intrapharyngeal lumen . In addition, an MRI scan of her cervical backbone was performed, which revealed a solid tumor of soft tissue at paravertebral level C2-3 with extension to the spinal cord, which we suspected to be a plasmacytoma . Her bone marrow biopsy showed an increase in her monoclonal plasma cell population to 34%. Additional immunostaining tests showed a low MIB-1 index and were negative for CD56. In view of the potential threat to her spinal cord, localised radiotherapy was started directly. This consisted of five sequences at 20Gy. After only two radiation sessions, the pain was relieved and she could swallow liquid food again and needed no additional pain medication. Because of the rapid recurrence of three plasmacytomas in one year, systemic chemotherapy was started in the form of melphalan, prednisone and thalidomide. After three cycles of chemotherapy she continued to have a satisfactory response .
