A 19-year-old man experienced abnormal vision in his right eye and consulted an ophthalmologist. Consequently, he was found to have retinal angiomatosis of his right eye. At 23 years of age, he experienced abnormal vision in his left eye and presented to the Department of Ophthalmology in our hospital. He repeatedly received retinal cryopexy for both eyes between 23 and 24 years of age. When he was 24 years of age, he suffered paralysis of the upper and lower limbs on his right side. At 25 years of age, he was again referred to our hospital due to deteriorating paralysis, and a computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging detected tumors in a number of organs, including the spinal cord, kidney, pancreas, and liver. According to his present condition and his family history, as mentioned below, he was diagnosed with VHL disease. The research project was approved by the Ethical Committee of Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, and we obtained informed consent from the patient to perform a direct sequencing analysis for the VHL gene in the patient's germline DNA, obtained from his peripheral leucocytes. The genetic analysis detected a germline missense mutation in the VHL gene (c. 233 A>G; p.N78S). Because codon 78 is located within the HIFα-binding domain, and this is one of the recurrently reported mutations in patients with VHL disease (12), this mutation was considered to be a pathogenic mutation, further corroborating the diagnosis of VHL disease. Tumors of the spinal cord in C1 and C2 were surgically resected and pathological examinations revealed that the tumors were hemangioblastomas. Three months later, tumors of the pancreatic body and tail were also surgically resected. The pathological findings revealed a neuroendocrine tumor of the pancreas (mitotic count: 1/10 high-power field, Ki67 index: 12%, G2, according to the WHO 2010 classification (13), ). After a 10-month follow-up, multiple liver tumors (3.5 mm in S2, 4 mm in S3, 28 mm and 18 mm in S4, 12 mm and 6 mm in S6, and 21 mm and 18 mm in S6-7) were subsequently resected because of their increased size, and the pathological examination revealed metastasis of the pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors to the liver (mitotic count: 1/10 high-power field, Ki67 index: 20%, G2, according to the WHO 2010 classification, ). Radiofrequency ablation was added to the two residual liver metastases in S2 and S3. Due to the presence of the other two tumors in S7, temozolomide (200 mg/body, day 1-5, q4w) was administered for three cycles, however, this treatment unfortunately resulted in further progression of the tumors. Thereafter, transcatheter arterial chemoembolization using 40 mg of epirubicin and 10 mL of lipiodol, an ethyl ester of iodinated poppy-seed oil fatty acid, was performed. Nevertheless, the S7 metastases further enlarged and new liver metas
). The patient was then referred to the Department of Medical Oncology in our hospital to receive systemic drug therapy. As shown in , his mother had pancreatic and renal cysts at 37 years of age and retinal angiomatosis at 47 years of age. His maternal grandmother lost her eyesight and died from renal cancer and brain tumors at 58 years of age. According to his family history, the patient was considered to carry type I VHL disease (3). As a first-line therapy, the patient started taking sorafenib 800 mg/day orally. Ten days after beginning the treatment, his treatment was stopped because of the side effect of a grade 3 erythema multiforme rash. As a second-line therapy, he successfully continued taking sunitinib 50 mg/day orally (day 1-28, every 6 weeks), with grade 2 toxicities such as hand-foot syndrome, diarrhea and stomatitis. For the treatment of this patient, we selected this dose, which is the standard regimen for RCC, because the patient had both RCC and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and because sunitinib at a 37.5 mg/day schedule had not yet been approved for treatments of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in Japan when the patient began receiving sunitinib treatment. Three months later, the sum of the diameter of the two liver tumors decreased from 67.9 (42.4+25.5) mm to 52.1 (35.0+17.1) mm, a 23% reduction. The size of the renal tumor changed from 17.3 mm to 12.0 mm, a 31% reduction. According to the response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 (14), the response evaluation of the liver and renal tumors were stable disease (SD) and partial response (PR), respectively. Nine months after beginning the sunitinib treatment, the liver tumor size reduced to 43.0 mm with a 37% reduction, considered to be PR . The liver and kidney tumors had continuously reduced in sized compared with the baseline size of the tumors following sunitinib treatment, although the liver tumors were slightly increasing. Forty-three months after beginning the sunitinib treatment, several cerebellar metastatic lesions occurred with concurrent symptoms of headache. The main tumor of the cerebellum (25 mm of hemangioblastoma) was resected, and gamma radiation therapy (total 20 Gy, 4 Gy ×5) was additionally performed against the other three small residual metastases (up to 5 mm). Fiftyseven months after beginning the sunitinib treatment, the treatment was stopped because of the increased size of the liver tumors (80.7 mm with a 19% increase compared with the baseline size of the tumors before beginning the sunitinib treatment, ). However, the kidney tumors had retained PR. In total, the patient successfully received sunitinib treatment for approximately 5 years, with maintenance of PR and SD for the liver tumors and PR for the renal tumors. For a third-line therapy, we had two options: axitinib, another tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting VEGFR-1, VEGFR2, and VEGFR-3, and everolimus (15), an mTOR inhibitor. We chose axitinib treatment due to the following reasons. First, we speculated that axitinib, whose targets overlapped those of sunitinib, might also be effective in both RCC and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in this patient that had long been sensitive to sunitinib treatment. Second, a phase III trial showed that axitinib exerts better efficacy as a second-line treatment than sorafenib for patients with RCC, including those who have previously received sunitinib treatment (5), establishing axitinib efficacy as a second-line treatment even after sunitinib failure. However, one month after beginning axitinib treatment, it was stopped because of the progression of liver metastases. One week after treatment with everolimus was initiated as a fourth-line therapy, the patient complained of dyspnea and was diagnosed as having severe respiratory failure. He was subsequently diagnosed as having pneumocystis pneumonia with a marked elevation of KL-6 and β-D-glucan in his blood. Despite intensive treatment with corticosteroids and antibiotic agents, he died from pneumocystis pneumonia, 27 days after the suspension of everolimus treatment.
