The next day of our patient' s admission, we consulted with our infectious disease team. After reviewing her case and evaluating the patient, they also concurred with our presumptive diagnosis of incomplete KD. She was started on intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and high-dose aspirin therapy per the recommended treatment protocol. She tolerated the IVIG therapy. A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) was obtained, which showed no evidence for coronary artery aneurysm (CAA) and was otherwise unremarkable. She remained afebrile for the next 3 days. Her blood cultures demonstrated no growth. Over those 3 days, she showed continual clinical improvement, and her inflammatory markers trended down. She was deemed stable for discharge and was scheduled to follow up with pediatric cardiology. Her aspirin was also deescalated to standard low-dose therapy, which she continued until her follow-up with cardiology. A month after discharge, she was seen by pediatric cardiology and had a repeat TTE. Both the examination and TTE were essentially normal with no evidence for CAA or other structural or functional abnormalities. At this time, her low-dose aspirin therapy was discontinued.On day 2 of her hospitalization, she refused to bear weight or walk at all. X-rays of the hips and femurs were obtained, which showed mild asymmetry of the capital femoral epiphyses. Ultrasound was also done over both hips, which showed a bilateral joint effusion with capsular distension on the right side (
. Both orthopedics and infectious disease were consulted due to concern of septic arthritis. She had an incision and drainage of the right hip with orthopedics. A large amount of purulent material was expressed from the joint and cultured. The synovial fluid analysis showed a cell count of 54 000/ mm 3 , glucose of 65 mg/dL, and protein of 3.5 g/dL. She was started on intravenous cefazolin and vancomycin. The Gram stain was negative, cultures did not show any growth, and the antibiotics were discontinued after 3 days when it was determined there was no evidence of infection.
Our patient had a magnetic resonance imaging scan of her hip that did not show evidence of arthritic or destructive changes in the joint space. With the paucity of findings suggestive of underlying infectious or hematologic etiologies, in addition to the findings of daily cyclic fevers, salmoncolored rash, joint pain, effusions, significant leukocytosis, anemia, thrombocytosis, and elevated inflammatory markers, the patient was thought to have an underlying autoimmune condition, most likely SoJIA. She was started on naproxen 50 mg twice daily. For .72 hours before discharge, she remained afebrile and had a significant clinical improvement overall. The rash ultimately dissipated, and she was able to ambulate on her right leg without difficulty. She was later started on steroids and anakinra.In 1961, Petersdorf and Beeson described for the first time fever of unknown origin (FUO) as fever lasting .3 weeks, with temperature higher than 38.3°C and the cause remaining unidentified despite
