A 65-year-old woman presented to an outside hospital with complaining of intermittent left-lower quadrant abdominal pain for one week. Computed tomography angiogram (CTA) demonstrated a severely tortuous descending thoracic aorta and an infrarenal AAA with maximum diameter of 80 mm and hostile neck (23 mm length neck with proximal diameter of 20 mm, distal diameter of 13 mm, maximum diameter of 23 mm and a 136° of infrarenal angulation) ( ,B). In addition, aneurysmal dilatation and severe calcification of bilateral iliac arteries with a 17 mm and 23 mm diameter on the left and right respectively, and tortuosity of aortoiliac access were also showed. An endovascular approach using Endurant stent-graft (Medtronic Vascular, Santa Rosa, CA, USA) was first attempted through left femoral access at an outside institution, but failed to angiographically confirm proximal neck after introducing delivery system below the origin of renal arteries because of the significant tortuosity of the abdominal aorta and iliac arteries. The patient was then transferred to our aortic center for further evaluation and treatment. Previous medical history included a hypertension, stroke with residual left limbs weakness. The patient was diagnosed to have AAA by CTA with maximum diameter of 40 mm in 2012, but didn't receive regular followup. Due to the underline comorbidities and patient's refusal to open surgery, a second EVAR was carried out after consent was obtained. We decided to use Excluder stent-graft system which is more flexible based on our previous experiences. Following intravenous sedation and local anesthesia, two pigtail catheters were introduced through bilateral femoral arteries respectively after surgical exposure. Diagnostic angiography confirmed the presence of unfavorable infrarenal AAA . An 18 F sheath (W.L. Gore & Associate, Flagstaff, AZ, USA) was introduced from right femoral artery and an Excluder PXT 281418 aortic main body (W.L. Gore & Associate, Flagstaff, AZ, USA) was deployed below the origin of the lowest renal artery over the Amplatz super stiff guidewire (Boston Scientific Corp., Marlborough, MA, USA). Two iliac stent-grafts of PXL121400 and PXL161407 (W.L. Gore & Associate, Flagstaff, AZ, USA) were successfully placed with the lower end distal to the opening of right internal iliac artery. But cannulation of the contralateral limb was unable to be achieved because of the tortuous aortoiliac course. Therefore, an Amplatz Goose Neck snare (EV3, USA) was inserted from right radial artery to catch the super smooth wire (ASAHI INTECC, Japan) in ascending aorta, through the contralateral gate, to grasp the wire from left femoral artery ( ,C). Two Excluder PXL141400 iliac legs (W.L. Gore & Associate, Flagstaff, AZ, USA) were sequentially deployed distal to the opening of the left internal iliac artery. Angiography confirmed complete sealing of the complex AAA with patency of bilateral renal arteries and external iliac arteries ( ,E,F). The procedure time was 1.5 hours. The patient's recovery course was uneventful and she was discharged on postoperative day 3. She was symptom-free without claudication and serum creatinine was 79.0 μmol/L. Follow-up CTA at postoperative 6 months demonstrated favorable stentgrafts positions without endoleaks or migration. Bilateral femoral and renal arteries were patent ( ,B).
