A 24-year-old Japanese man presented to the emergency department (ED) with fever, abdominal pain, and vomiting. He had a history of mental retardation and epilepsy, and he could not express his emotions verbally. On arrival at the ED, the patient had a blood pressure of 75/coli, and Streptococcus anginosus, all of which are sensitive to meropenem, which was administered for 14 days. His postoperative course was uneventful, and he was discharged on an oral diet. Four days after discharge, the patient returned to the ED having experienced several vomiting episodes. A plain abdominal radiograph revealed a partial gaseous distention of the small bowel. Abdominal CT scanning, which was performed on the day following the patient's readmission to hospital, enabled us to diagnose postoperative paralytic ileus. The patient's only symptom was vomiting, and he had no symptoms that suggested an abdominal abscess. Non-operative management was chosen that including nasogastric tube decompression. After the discharge from the nasogastric tube declined, we began oral nutrition; however, the patient vomited again and we managed him using a long intestinal tube. The patient's symptoms did not improve under nonoperative management, and we decided to perform a laparotomy 40 days after the initial operation, because an upper gastrointestinal series using a long intestinal tube had revealed a small intestinal stenosis. A considerable adhesion was present in the upper jejunum to the abdominal wall, which were considered to be the cause of the passage disorder, and there was no evidence of a bowel stricture. Based on these intraoperative findings, we performed a synechotomy only. After undergoing the re-operation, the patient's course was uneventful. However, 57 days after the initial operation, the patient experienced symptoms associated with a bowel obstruction. An upper gastrointestinal series revealed a small intestinal stenosis within the proximal jejunum. Fifty-nine days after the initial operation, a partial resection of the jejunum was performed. A severe luminal stricture of the jejunum was evident that was accompanied by marked structural changes, which were not apparent during the second operation . The pathological findings revealed an ischemic inflammation accompanied by an ulcer and necrosis. A wide-ranging exclusion of the membranes had occurred, with ulcer formation, and the inflammation and fibrosis reached the submucosal and sub-serosal layers were observed . After the third operation, the patient's course was uneventful, and he was discharged on an oral diet.mesenteric vascular occlusion and subsequent bowel necrosis. The mortality rate is high among cases of HPVG that is associated with bowel necrosis (75%), and emergency surgery is recommended for these potentially lethal cases . Given the high mortality rate of HPVG associated with bowel necrosis, the underlying disease might be an important factor that contributes to patient survival. The degree of bowel necrosis also seems to be associated with the mortality rate. Although NOMI is an important pathology associated with HPVG and it has the highest mortality rates when it is associated with different critical conditions, an increasing number of patients managed using conservative treatment have been reported . In 1958, Ende described the first cases of NOMI in 3 patients with heart-failure-associated low outputs . Recently, a variety of predisposing factors for NOMI have been reported, including heart failure/cardiogenic shock, aortic insufficiency, the administration of vasoconstrictive medications, and dialysis . Although a relatively low level of mortality has been demonstrated among dialysis patients without bowel necrosis, NOMI has the poorest survival rate among the different mesenteric ischemia etiologies, primarily because of the severity of the comorbid conditions that precipitate reductions in mesenteric perfusion and diagnostic delays. NOMI is associated with 20–30% of all cases of acute mesenteric ischemia and has a mortality rate of 70–90%, which has changed little over time, it is associated with 20–30% of all cases of acute mesenteric ischemia. It leads to extensive irreversible intestinal necrosis for which the prognosis is very poor, despite the absence of organic obstructions in the principal arteries. Contrast-enhanced CT scanning reveals patent mesenteric vessels, but the intestinal wall shows a reduced level of enhancement, both of which are indicative of a diagnosis ofSubmit your manuscript at www.biomedcentral.com/submit
