A 65-year old man who had undergone right pneumonectomy and lymph node dissection (ND2a) for lung squamous cell carcinoma ( pT3 N1M0) presented with facial and neck oedema on follow-up after 14 months. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) revealed a bulky mediastinal lymph node, which was not detectable on the last follow-up CECT. The lymph node invaded circumferentially to the superior vena cava (SVC) system and obstructed the vascular lumen . Whole-body F18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) revealed abnormally increased FDG uptake in the lymph node (maximum standardized uptake value, 13.5), and no other abnormal FDG accumulation was detected elsewhere. These findings suggested that the SVC syndrome was due to local recurrence from lung cancer. We opted for surgery not only for relief from symptoms but also with a curative intent upon obtaining the patient's consent. The surgical approach was by a right hemi-clamshell incision (median sternotomy plus right anterior thoracotomy). The neoplastic thrombosis extended from the SVC to the right subclavian– jugular venous confluence accompanied with a fibrotic change in the right internal jugular vein, preventing us from reconstructing the right brachiocephalic vein (BCV) . After isolating the left BCV, which was not involved by the tumour, end-to-end anastomosis of a 12-mm ringed expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) graft between the right atrial appendage and the left BCV was performed with 5-0 polypropylene running sutures following clamping. We attempted to reconstruct the right subclavian vein (SCV) instead of the right BCV. We added a transmanubrial approach and the anterior part of the first rib was removed. The SVC system was dissected free from the surrounding tissue. The azygous vein had already been ligated in the preceding surgery. The SVC was clamped just proximal to the SVC–right atrial junction, and the right SCV was clamped just distal to the jugular confluence . We then completed en bloc resection of the tumour combined with SVC and both BCVs. The stump of the right internal jugular vein was closed with an interrupted 5-0 polypropylene suture. End-to-end anastomosis of a 16-mm ringed ePTFE graft between the SVC and the right SCV was performed with the same technique as the left BCV graft. Graft–SCV anastomosis was created in the extra-thoracic portion . Thus, we performed double-graft reconstruction of the SVC system . The operative duration was 7 h 32 min, and the estimated blood loss was 2590 g. Intraoperative transfusions of packed red blood cells and fresh frozen plasma were 8 and 10 U, respectively. The patient's postoperative course was complicated only by a transient right arm oedema due to right graft occlusion. This complication was gradually improved with oral warfarin therapy, and he was discharged on postoperative day 23. The patient is alive, well and has been disease-free for 39 months since the second surgery. Adjuvant chemotherapy was administered neither after the first nor second surgery due to patient refusal. Pathological diagnosis of the surgical specimen was squamous cell carcinoma, confirming local recurrence from lung cancer.A pathological complete resection with negative surgical margin was achieved.
