We report a 72-year-old male who was examined for hypertension secondary to suspected renal artery stenosis. Imaging was performed using MDCT angiography (64slice MDCT scanner, SOMATOM Sensation, Siemens Medical Solutions, Forchheim, Germany). All imaging data was reconstructed with a body soft tissue algorithm and transferred to an offline workstation (Syngo Multi Modality Workplace) for post-processing. The images were analyzed using a 3D task card, performing 3D Maximum Intensity Projection (MIP) reconstruction, and an in-space task card for 3D Volume Rendering Technique (VRT) reconstructions. The patient was found to have a right SERA originating in the thoracic region. In addition, the SERA was associated with a normal kidney position and an area of arterial stenosis, proximally.The superior pole of the right kidney was located at the level of the lower 1/3 of T12 vertebral body, which corresponded to the level of origin of the celiac trunk (CT). The superior pole of the left kidney was located at the level of the upper 1/3 of the L1 vertebral body, corresponding with the level of origin of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) . The aortic hiatus was situated between the middle and lower 1/3 of the T12 vertebra, just above the CT origin. The SMA arose from the anterior wall of the abdominal aorta (AA), at the level of the upper 1/3 of the L1 vertebra. The right RA originated from the right side of the thoracic aorta (TA) at the level of the upper 1/3 of the T12 vertebra (35 mm above the origin of the SMA) and had an endoluminal diameter of 6.6 mm at its origin. With an " S "-shaped course and a total length of 103 mm, this artery had an intratoracic portion of 38 mm. It crossed the diaphragm at 23 mm lateral to the right side of the TA, through a hiatus located on the lateral side of the right crus of the diaphragm. At the diaphragmatic level, the right RA had an endoluminal diameter of 5.8 mm. Most of the infradiaphragmatic course was located retrocavally . The left RA arose from the left lateral side of the AA at the level of the lower 1/3 of the L1 vertebra (18 mm below the origin of the SMA) and had an endoluminal diameter of 3.4 mm at its origin. The artery descended a total length of 52 mm. The distance between the level of origin of the CT and SMA was 13 mm, while the distance between the aortic origins of the respective renal arteries was 53 mm. The right inferior phrenic artery, which had an endoluminal diameter of 1.2 mm at its origin, arose from the left lateral wall of the right RA, 5 mm below the level of CT (45 mm distal to the right RA origin). The left inferior phrenic artery arose from the left lateral wall of the AA (24 mm above the level of CT) and had an endoluminal diameter of 1.65 mm at its origin . MDCT angiography did not reveal the presence or location of adrenal or testicular arteries. The area of arterial stenosis of the right proximal RA had a length of 12.4 mm and a minimum endoluminal diameter of 4.0 mm. This was followed distally by a post-stenotic expansion with a length of 18.5 mm and a maximum endoluminal diameter of 8.4 mm . The calculated degree of renal arterial stenosis was 40%. After imaging diagnosis was obtained, the patient was admitted to a specialized endovascular treatment center where the stenotic artery was stented.
