A 73-year-old Asian man was referred to our hospital because of a right ventricular tumor. He had a history of left ureteral cancer, and he had undergone nephroureterectomy of his left kidney 9 years ago and transurethral resection of a bladder tumor (TUR-Bt) for intravesical recurrence. After four histories of TUR-Bt, no evidence of cancer recurrence was found for a period of 6 years. However, echocardiography for cardiac screening of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation revealed a low echogenic tumor in his right ventricle (RV), and he was admitted to our hospital for further examination. The results of a physical examination were almost within normal limits, and laboratory tests showed mild chronic kidney disease (creatinine level of 1.22 mg/dl and blood urea nitrogen level of 21 mg/dl) and a mildly elevated brain natriuretic peptide level (178 pg/ml). In electrocardiography (ECG), mild ST-segment elevation and T wave inversion were revealed in V1–3 . Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a 35×35 mm low echogenic tumor that was invading the myocardium of the apex of his RV, and the border of the tumor was poorly defined. There was a small amount of pericardial effusion and no detectable valvular abnormality ( , b). We suspected the tumor to be a metastasis from urothelial cancer based on its echocardiographical features and the patient's past history. We tried to detect the primary lesion by 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), and it showed abnormal FDG uptake in his RV apex tumor and prostate . Pelvis magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed another lesion invading his prostate, and a biopsy of the prostate lesion showed carcinoma cells suspected to be from the urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation. Although the tumor was localized on his RV apical wall, and the risk of RV apical wall perforation due to cardiac biopsy was therefore considered to be relatively high, we recommended surgical or transvenous biopsy of the RV tumor for definite diagnosis of a metastatic cardiac tumor. However, he did not wish to undergo a biopsy. We decided to perform systemic chemotherapy for the urothelial carcinoma and cardiac lesion. The patient received gemcitabine, paclitaxel and cisplatin therapy (GTC) for the urothelial carcinoma. After two courses of GTC therapy (75 and 50 % dose), the tumors of the prostate and RV apex wall became smaller, and FDG uptake of the tumors was also reduced as shown by followup FDG-PET (Figs. 2c, d and 3b). We suspected the RV tumor to be a metastatic cardiac tumor from urothelial carcinoma without pathological analysis because chemotherapy for the urothelial carcinoma was also effective for the RV tumor. However, a new pubic bone metastasis was also revealed by follow-up FDG-PET. Radiation therapy was then performed for pubic bone metastasis (3 Gy×18 times, total 54 Gy). After the radiation therapy, chemotherapy was continued but the regime was changed to gemcitabine and cisplatin (GC) because of renal dysfunction. However, after three cycles of GC chemotherapy (50 % dose each), lung metastasis and adrenal gland metastasis were also detected, and chemotherapy itself was discontinued because of renal dysfunction, bone marrow suppression, and poor performance status. Finally, he died from multiple organ failure 16 months after his first admission. An autopsy was not performed because permission could not be obtained from his family.
