A 77-year-old Japanese man, who was hit by a midsize truck while driving a motorcycle, was transported by ambulance to our tertiary hospital after sustaining severe injuries to his face. On arrival, he presented with bleeding from his nose and swelling of an eyelid, which prevented his ophthalmologic condition from being properly evaluated; however, he did not complain of visual impairment. The ophthalmologist examined him on day one, which revealed that the intraocular pressure was within normal range bilaterally with no relative afferent pupillary defect. The pupillary light reflex was absent on the patient's right side, which was suggestive of traumatic mydriasis, which resolved in a week. His vital signs were as follows: Glasgow Coma Scale 14, respiratory rate 22 breaths/minute, pulse rate: 77 beats/ minute, and blood pressure: 203/95 mmHg. He was diagnosed with: a frontal bone fracture; a minor epidural hematoma; a cerebral contusion; Le Fort III fractures of his nose, bilateral orbital walls, and left zygomatic arch;
multiple rib fractures; and a fracture of his left ulna based on X-rays and a CT scan . He was intubated and mechanically ventilated for 11 days to protect his airway from bleeding from his facial injuries. Although he had no traumatic brain injuries (TBI) that required surgical treatment, cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea was treated via a lumber drain, which resolved within 10 days. On day 3, a follow-up plain CT scan for TBI revealed mild dilatation of his left SOV, which was suggestive of a CCF or SOV thrombosis resulting from insufficient venous drainage . As he did not exhibit exophthalmos, audible pulsatile bruits, extraocular muscle disturbances, or visual impairment (except for slight hyperemia of the left conjunctiva), careful follow-up and observation were continued during the period of sedation and mechanical ventilation. Unfractionated heparin was started on day 8 for a deep venous thrombosis extending from his left external iliac vein to his femoral vein. On day 12, although a contrastenhanced CT scan showed expansion and thrombosis of his left SOV and these findings did not exhibit any obvious connection with the internal carotid artery or the cavernous sinus, which was suggestive of a CCF , he was conservatively managed due to the asymptomatic nature of his condition. On day 14, his complex facial fractures were surgically repaired to correct cosmetic defects and masticatory problems. The dilation of his left SOV and slight hyperemia of the conjunctiva improved within 2 weeks . Although he possessed binocular vision, he complained of a slight visual disturbance associated with subluxation of his right lens when he was transferred to another hospital to undergo rehabilitation on the 31st hospital day, at which time he was receiving warfarin for a residual deep venous thrombosis. He did not have any complaints about his left eye at 4 months after the injury.
