A 3-year-old male child affected with biliary cirrhosis due to biliary atresia received an orthotopic liver transplant with a split liver left lateral graft from a deceased donor. Portal vein reconstruction was performed by direct anastomosis of the donor's left portal vein with the recipient's portal vein trunk, without an interposed graft conduit. The postoperative course was characterized by persistent production of ascites, with normal findings on sequential Doppler ultrasound exams. A transjugular liver biopsy wasdone, and histology was consistent with reperfusion injury, the transjugular approach was chosen for a low platelet count, 62.000/mcl, and high international normalized ratio 2.02. After a slow recovery of function of the transplanted organ the patient was discharged home after 7 weeks, with normal liver function tests, normal ultrasound findings, and no abdominal ascites. Clinical and Doppler ultrasound at 3-month follow-up were unremarkable. Six months after discharge, the patient showed mild abdominal discomfort and a reduction in platelet count compared with the previous clinical exam (from 110.000 to 65.000/mcl). A Doppler ultrasound showed cavernomatous replacement of the portal vein associated with increased spleen volume (longitudinal length of the spleen from 12 to 15.5 cm). A contrastenhanced computed tomography was done. Axial and 3Dreconstruction images confirmed main portal vein thrombosis, with cavernomatous replacement of the main portal vein, and patent splenic-mesenteric confluence , though the portal vein remnant was still detectable. After consulting with our surgical team, an interventional radiology procedure was planned in order to attempt a percutaneous recanalization of the main portal vein. The thrombosis, though in the presence of a cavernomatous replacement, was no older than 3 months, or less, based on the previous ultrasound examination, which showed a patent portal vein. The informed consent for the procedure was obtained from the parents of the patient. Peri-procedural ultrasound was done, and identified the main portal vein remnant as an iso/hyperechoic fibrotic band around which the various channels forming the portal cavernoma intertwined. The procedure was performed under general anesthesia in an angiographic suite, with a flat panel detector-based system (Innova 4100, General Electric Medical Systems, USA). Trans-hepatic puncture of portal vein was performed under real-time ultrasound guidance (GE Logiq E9—GE Healthcare, Milwaukee, WI, USA), using a 6 toUSA). Portography showed filling of the portal vein, with persistent filling of collateral vessels. The 5F hydrophilic catheter was replaced with a 5F sizing catheter (Centimeter Sizing Catheter, Cook, Bjaverrkov, Denmark) for accurate measurement of the distance between the splenic-mesenteric confluence and the Rex segment of the portal vein . An 8 mm diameter, 57 mm length uncovered stent (Express LD Vascular, Boston Scientific Natick, MA, USA) was finally deployed in the portal vein with the proximal end approximately 1 cm above the splenic-mesenteric confluence, and the distal end approximately 1 cm below the Rex segment of the portal vein. Portography showed good flow in the stent, with no filling of the collateral vessels . The trans-hepatic track was embolized with a coil. Procedure time was 85 min, total anesthesia time was 170 min, and overall radiation exposure was 2508 cGy cm 2 (dose–area product), including fluoroscopy and digital subtraction angiography runs. The patient was maintained on low-molecular-weight heparin for 1 week, followed by oral anticoagulation with warfarin to maintain an international normalized ratio between 1.5 and 2 for 6 months. After a follow-up of 12 months, the patient is in good clinical condition, with patent portal vein on Doppler ultrasound  and longitudinal length of the spleen reduced from 15.5 to 12.5 cm.
