A 34-year-old 2-parous (caesarean section, twice) woman underwent uneventful artificial abortion with dilatation and curettage (D&C) at 11 weeks' gestation. Twenty-two days later, massive vaginal bleeding occurred. Ultrasound showed an echogenic mass with anechoic area within the uterine cavity , with swirling flow in the anechoic area . Enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed intrauterine enhancement in the early phase . Diagnosing this condition as UAP, pelvic angiography was performed, which revealed extravasation from the left uterine artery ( , arrow). Bilateral uterine arteries were embolised with absorbable gelatin sponge (Gelform â , Astellas, Tokyo, Japan), stopping the extravasation. Bleeding stopped. Ultrasound revealed that the previous UAP area gradually became echogenic; however, a small amount of genital bleeding continued. Twelve days after the initial embolisation, ultrasound revealed swirling blood flow in the intrauterine area corresponding to the previous UAP . Angiography revealed extravasation from the left ovarian artery , with the uterine arteries well occluded. Thus, the left ovarian artery was embolised at the distal side of the ovary with gelatin sponge, which stopped extravasation and achieved haemostasis. Bleeding recurred 8 days after the second embolisation. Ultrasound showed swirling flow within the area corresponding to the initial UAP, and angiography revealed extravasation from the left ovarian artery. We considered that the absorption of the embolus may have led to the re-extravasation. Left ovarian artery embolisation was performed once again at the distal side of the ovary with a 1:8 mixture of n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate (NBCA) (Histacryl â B|BRAUN Tokyo, Japan) and ethiodised oil (Lipiodol â TERUMO, Tokyo, Japan), which stopped the extravasation, achieving haemostasis. No adverse events accompanying embolisation were observed. Three months after the third embolisation, she regained her menstrual cycle, with serum luteinising hormone: 2.8 mIU/mL, follicular stimulating hormone: 5.7 mIU/mL and estradiol: 108.8 pg/mL, with ultrasound showing a normal uterus and bilateral ovaries.
uterine artery embolization, but also vaginal artery embolisation was required . If one of 'dual' feeders is the ovarian artery, physicians may face a dilemma: embolisation of the ovarian artery may deprive flow to the ovary and, thus, the future occurrence of ovarian failure is a concern. Indeed, a report indicated that ovarian artery embolisation for uterine myoma caused persistent amenorrhoea . In our case, ovarian artery was embolised at the distal side of the ovary. However, this may also deprive flow to the ovary, especially when using permanent embolisation substance: it may move to some distance and, thus, may plug the arteries feeding the ovary, reducing ovarian arterial flow. Fortunately, this patient had regular menses after embolisation, and hormonal analysis showed an intact ovarian function; however, strictly speaking, whether the function of the 'left' ovary remained completely intact was unclear. Ultrasound monitoring for follicular development may provide some information for this: we could not perform it because of lost follow-up. Second, re-extravasation may occur when the embolisation substance is absorbed. A gelatin sponge is absorbed approximately 1–2 weeks after embolisation. In a previous report, of 22 UAP that we treated, two required re-embolisation at 7 and 9 days after the initial embolisation; gelatin sponge was used in both cases . To alleviate this concern, permanent embolisation substances, a metallic coil or N-butyl cyanoacrylate (NBCA), are sometimes employed. Indeed, we used NBCA for the third embolisation. Permanent embolisation is technically more difficult and, as the term indicates, it 'permanently' occludes the corresponding artery; ischaemic events may be expected to occur more frequently . Thus, the embolisation effect and possibility of an ischemic event have a trade-off relationship. The choice of embolisation substance depends on the judgment of experienced interventional radiologists on a patient-by-patient basis. Arteries other than the uterine artery may contribute to UAP, thus its embolisation is needed; re-bleeding after embolisation may occur, especially at the time of absorption of the embolisation substance.
