There were four patients in the series. Two patients of type B dissection combined with coronary artery disease received stented elephant trunk implantation and CABG; one patient of type B dissection combined with aortic valve insufficiency received stented elephant trunk implantation by an open aortic manner and tissue valve replacement; one patient of type A dissection received ascending aorta and hemiarch replacement combined with stented elephant trunk implantation. A median sternotomy was performed, the innominate artery was mobilized to the bifurcation as well as left common carotid artery and left subclavian artery. After heparinzation, double purse-string sutures were made at the innominate artery. Then the innominate artery was stabbed and a home-made 22F or 24F wire-reinforced flexible short-tipped cannula with " a hole in the back "  was introduced. The hole was made at the bend opposite to the tip with a similar area as the normal opening of the cannula. Venous return was established with a 2-stage cannula introduced via the right atrium. When the core temperature was cooled to about 32 °C, the ascending aorta was clamped, cardioplegia was perfused antegradely. The proximal procedures: distal anastomosis for CABG, aortic valve replacement or ascending aorta replacement, were performed. During the proximal procedure the core temperature was decreased sequentially to 26 ~ 28 °C, then the circulation arrest was induced and a clamp was applied proximal to the innominate artery cannula . The antegrade SCP was induced with a rate of 5 to 10 ml/kg/min with maintaining the right radial artery pressure at 40 ~ 50 mmHg. Such a pressure was almost the same as what was maintained during system perfusion. Then the arch was transected and the returning blood from left common carotid artery was well observed. A self-expandable stent vessel prosthesis with a length of 8 to 10 cm was inserted into the descending aorta. The proximal end of the stent was positioned just distal to the opening of the left subclavian artery and proximal free edge was attached to the aorta with a continuous suture. The incision at the aortic arch was closed. Then the clamp on innominate artery was removed and the ascending aorta was occluded again. Systemic perfusion was restored gently. Then the rewarming progress was induced. All patients had an uneventful perioperative period and discharged without any complication. Permanent neurologic dysfunction and paraplegia did not occur in the patients. Postoperative CTA of a patient with type B dissection and coronary artery disease is shown in .
