A 34-year-old women presented with pain, pallor and paraesthesia of the left leg since three hours. At clinical examination the arterial pulses could not be found and Doppler ultrasonography revealed a thrombotic occlusion of the left femoral arterial bifurcation completely blocking distal blood fl ow. Based on the diagnosis of acute lower extremity ischemia due to femoral arterial embolism, urgent embolectomy was performed. Th e resected material had the appearance of a hydatid cyst  and the diagnosis was confi rmed both by histopathological examination  and indirect hemagglutination tests. Th e radiological investigation to determine the source of emboli yielded a 3 × 4 cm cystic lesion neighbouring the arcus aortae . No other manifestations of echinococcosis were found in the patient. Surgical treatment was planned and following median sternotomy, the lesion was observed at the origin of the aortic arch. Under hypothermic total circulatory arrest, replacement of ascending aorta and hemiarcus were accomplished successfully. Albendazole treatment (10 mg / kg / day) was given in two divided doses for 14 days. Th is course of administration was repeated consecutively three times. Th e patient had an uneventful recovery and is under follow-up two years aft er surgery without any vascular or systemic complaints.. Th is case is an example of its malignant behaviour. Most patients with mediastinal hydatid cyst are symptomatic. Th e presenting symptoms are determined by the size and location of the cyst and the degree of compression or erosion of the mediastinal structures . In our patient, no additional symptoms other than those of peripheral arterial occlusion were observed. Cases with mediastinal involvement of hydatid cyst may present with chest pain, cough, dyspnoea and recurrent nerve paralysis. Some patients may be asymptomatic and the lesion can be discovered coincidentally on a chest X-ray. Chest X-ray and CT are the most commonly used radiological modalities for diagnosis of mediastinal hydatid cyst. Computerized tomography is essential for outlining the morphology, density and extent of the lesion . Presence of calcifi cation should raise a strong suspicion of hydatid cyst . Serological tests are oft en negative when the cyst is intact and uncomplicated . However, in our case with aortic arch involvement, the serological test employed was positive. Surgical intervention is indicated in order to avoid serious complications such as rupture, fi stula, infection, and compression of vital structures. Medical treatment should be administered postoperatively in patients with perforated cysts or those with signs of dissemination . Th e route by which the parasite reaches the arterial wall is not obscure. Presence of pre-existing small intimal tears, vasa vasorum or external invasion following local dissemination may be responsible for dissemination. During surgery, great care should be taken to avoid rupture of the cyst and subsequent dissemination of the infection .
