A healthy, 35-year-old woman without any history of ocular and systemic disease received CaHA filler injections (RADIESSE® 1.5 ml) for cosmetic nose augmentation. Multiple injections along midline of the nasal dorsum from nasal tip to glabella were performed under local anesthesia. Ten minutes after the procedure, she developed nausea, vomiting, headache, ptosis, and left periorbital pain. After 30 minutes, she complained of progressively blurring vision in the left eye. The best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in her left eye was 30 cm ahead of hand motion. Skin necrosis developed over the nasal dorsum, glabellar region, and left forehead . Left exotropia was noted in primary gaze. Limitations in adduction, supraduction, and infraduction of the left eye were also observed . Slit lamp examination of the left eye revealed a pink conjunctiva, a clear cornea, a mild anterior chamber reaction, a sluggish pupillary light reflex, and a semidilated pupil. A positive relative afferent pupillary defect was observed in the left eye. The intraocular pressure was normal in both eyes. Fundus examination revealed optic disc edema and some linear whitish opacities over thesuperior and temporal sites in the left eye, suggesting multiple CaHA emboli in the choroid vessels ( ,b). Optical coherence tomography (OCT) revealed disc edema without macular edema in the left eye . Fluorescein angiography revealed neither delayed filling nor hypofluroescence in the left eye. Visual field testing revealed an inferior altitudinal visual field defect in the left eye. Measurement of the visual evoked potential (VEP) showed a decreased amplitude and marked delay in the appearance of peaks. Electroretinography (ERG) showed a normal waveform. All examinations were normal in the right eye. Orbital computed tomography (CT) demonstrated high-density deposits in the nose region and left medial orbital cavity . No evident lesion was noted on brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Alprostadil and dextran were administered for improving blood supply. Moreover, ten sessions of hyperbaric oxygen therapy were administered. One month later, the visual acuity in her left eye improved to 6/60. A pale disc was observed, with persistent plaque occlusions in the choroid vessels.
