A 29-year-old Caucasian woman affected by a schizoaffective disorder, treated with haloperidol 2mg per day and olanzapine 10mg per day, was admitted at a Psychiatric Unit for a reacutization of her psychotic symptoms (hallucinations, delusions and catatonic behavior), due to a lack of medications adherence. Her past medical history was characterized by a previous hospitalization for acute psychosis 1 year earlier, incomplete right bundle branch block (RBBB) and ovarian cysts. Her family medical history revealed that her mother had an anxiety disorder and her grandmother had a major depression. She was on long-term OCs, ethinyl estradiol/drospirenone 0.03mg/ 3mg per day and denied smoking tobacco products and any substance use. A physical examination showed a temperature of 37.2°C and blood pressure of 150/100mmHg, whereas all the other parameters were within normal range. The results of blood tests and electrocardiography (ECG) were normal, except for RBBB. Her hospitalization lasted 3 months and during the first month she was treated orally with olanzapine 20mg per day and haloperidol 9mg per day for 23 days. On the 23rd day of hospitalization, since a poor response to treatment was observed, antipsychotics were interrupted and aripiprazole 30mg per day was administered for 6 days. In addition, on the same day, she was diagnosed with oral candidiasis and treated simultaneously for a week orally with fluconazole 100mg per day and miconazole oral gel 2% 20mg, two times per day. Since her psychotic symptoms did not seem to improve, 29 days after admission and on the last day of antifungal treatment, aripiprazole was replaced by clozapine. Clozapine was started at 25mg per day orally and was gradually increased, within 16 days, to 225mg per day with the resolution of psychotic symptoms. After 3 weeks the plasma level of clozapine was 542ng/mL (range 350 to 450ng/mL) and the level of its active metabolite norclozapine was 216ng/mL. Blood tests showed eosinophilia and an increase of C-reactive protein (5.73mg/L). She experienced the first symptoms (nausea, vomiting, palpitations) 5 days before the plasma level of clozapine was measured, while she was being treated with clozapine and OCs. At that point, long-term OCs treatment was discontinued and no other form of contraception was administered to her. She was referred to a cardiologist. A physical examination showed tachycardia and gallop rhythm and she complained of nausea and vomiting. An ECG revealed sinus tachycardia (135 beats/minute), QTc 0.43 seconds, and S-T segment depression and inversion of T-waves in inferior and lateral leads. An echocardiography showed a small pericardial effusion suggestive of iatrogenic pericarditis. Due to those findings, 1 week after discontinuing OCs, clozapine was also interrupted and she was not rechallenged. Within 4 days, she showed resolution of clozapine side effects, normalization of ECG and complete recovery of pericardial effusion. Her symptoms continued to improve and 6 days after discontinuing clozapine she was discharged. The plasma level of clozapine, measured 1 week after discontinuing clozapine (2 weeks after interruption of OCs) was undetectable. At 1 month follow-up, transthoracic echocardiography and inflammatory markers were normal .
