A 41-year-old white man was diagnosed with VHL with multiple retinal hemangioblastomas in 1987 at the age of 17 years. He received thermal laser and cryotherapy treatment for a retinal hemangioblastoma in his right eye in 1992. The tumor progressed and upon examination in June 2007 he had no light perception in his right eye, with a completely obscured fundus. On examination in April 2011, there was still no light perception in hisuse, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly credited. The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver (http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated. right eye; his intraocular pressure was 52mmHg; and band keratopathy, rubeosis iridis, and dense cataracts were present . On examination in July 2012, his right eye was blind and painful with an intraocular pressure of 48mmHg and a corneal ulcer. The vision in his left eye was 20/20, and the fundus showed evidence of a retinal hemangioblastoma involving the optic nerve and the presence of retinal exudates . He underwent enucleation of the blind and painful right eye in November 2013. The enucleated eye was sent to the National Eye Institute for pathological examination. Routine histopathology and immunohistochemistry were performed on the enucleated right globe. Macroscopically, the cornea was perforated by an expulsive hemorrhage. The anterior chamber was completely occluded by a pupillary membrane admixed with intraocular contents and extensive hemorrhaging. The vitreous cavity was filled with hemorrhage, and the retina was poorly identified. There was bone tissue admixed with hemorrhages in the posterior pole. The optic nerve also contained hemorrhage. On microscopy, the cornea was perforated centrally, where the hemorrhage was mixed with the exposed intraocular contents including the uvea and retina. Most of the remaining corneal epithelium showed changes in epidermalization, and there was extensive neovascularization with small hemorrhages at the anterior corneal surface . Consequently, immunostaining for VEGF was positive at the corneal surface . The atrophic iris was disorganized and adhered to the Descemet's membrane. Additionally, the surface of the iris showed neovascularization . The retina was totally detached, disorganized, and showed marked gliosis. A large retinal hemangioblastoma was noted at the optic nerve head . The tumor was mainly composed of large cells with foamy cytoplasm . Within the retinal hemangioblastoma, there were focal areas of cystic degeneration, gliosis, and hemorrhage. There was osseous transformation beneath the hemangioblastoma, mixed with gliofibrous tissues in some areas . Expression of VEGF and HIF-1α was strongly positive within the hemangioblastoma and in the optic nerve ( ,C). Large hemorrhages beneath the choroid were observed.
