A 65-year-old woman had received multiple red blood cell (RBC) transfusions due to paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) since she was 31 years old and had been diagnosed to have chronic hepatitis C at 41 years of age. She had not received any anti-HCV therapy. She was referred to our hospital for an evaluation of asymptomatic multiple lung masses which had been found as a right pulmonary nodule on a chest X-ray taken as a part of an annual medical checkup ten years earlier, when the pathological examination had revealed no evidence of malignancy and, thereafter, she had been undergoing regular follow-up. No gastric lesion had been detected during the follow-up. The pulmonary lesion, which had measured 3 cm in diameter five years previously, slowly but progressively enlarged, and such lesions had also increased in number by the time of referral.On referral, a chest X-ray showed multiple tumors in the bilateral lungs, the largest measuring 9 cm in diameter . A trans-bronchial biopsy was performed and biopsy specimens showed small-to medium-sized lymphoid cells which were positive for CD20, CD79a and bcl-2, but negative for CD3, CD4, CD5, CD8 and cyclinD1. CD10 and CD30 were equivocal and MIB-1 positivity was less than 5%. These findings suggested low-grade B-cell lymphoma. Aside from the pulmonary tumors, she had also noticed a nodule on her left upper eyelid two years before this presentation, which was detected as a subcutaneous nodule. A magnetic resonant imaging study demonstrated a mass which extended from the lacrimal crest to the top of the eye and another along the lateral rectus muscle . The former was biopsied and the histological studies revealed a diffuse proliferation of lymphoid cells with the same immunologic characteristics as the pulmonary tumor  and EMZL of MALT-type was diagnosed. The white blood cell count was 3.1×10 9 /L with a normal differential, the RBC count 3.34×10 12 /L with 2.7% reticulocytes, the hemoglobin level 10.1 g/dL, the hematocrit level 31.0%, and the platelet count 9.1×10 9 /L. The blood chemistry showed the total protein level to be 10.3 g/dL, the albumin 3.8 g/dL, the creatinine 0.54 mg/dL, the total bilirubin 1.0 mg/dL, the asparate transaminase 89 U/L, the alanine transaminase 39 U/L, and the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 1,084 U/L, 40% of which was the LDH1 isozyme. Electrophoresis of the serum protein revealed an increase in the γglobulin level and the serum IgG level was 2,557 mg/dL, IgA 139 mg/dL and IgM 3,846 mg/dL. Immunoelectrophoresis of the serum revealed a monoclonal IgM kappa component and the presence of IgG-IgM mixed cryoglobulin. Rheumatoid factor was 39 IU/mL (reference range: 0-15) and antinuclear antibody was negative. The soluble interleukin-2 receptor level was 886 U/mL (reference range: 124-466). The percentages of CD55 and CD59 positive RBCs were 82.7% and 80.0%, respectively, thus confirming the presence of PNH RBCs with chronic hemolysis. The IgG antibody against Helicobacter pylori was negative. The quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) detected 6.9 LogIU/mL group 1 HCV RNA. Hepatitis B virus DNA was not detected. Bence-Jones protein kappa was detected in the urine. The bone marrow was normocellular without any evidence of lymphoma cells. Additional immunological staining of the biopsied specimen with anti-μ chain antibody showed diffuse staining of the lymphoma cells suggestive of IgM production by the cells . A fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis with probes for the API2 and MALT1 locus on chromosomes 11q21 and 18q21, respectively, did not reveal any fusion signals, but it did demonstrate three signals with the probe for MALT1 in 67.5% cells. Similarly, fusion signals of IgH and BCL-2 on chromosomes 14q32 and 18q21, respectively, were not detected, however, 85% cells showed three signals of BCL-2 and two to four signals of IgH. These results suggested duplication or (partial) trisomy of chromosome region 18q21 where MALT1 and BCL-2 genes are located and the amplification of the IgH gene by some undetermined mechanism. The patient was treated with immunochemotherapy, consisting of rituximab, cyclophosphamide, pirarubicin, vindesine, and predonisolone which resulted in the reduction in both the size of the tumors and the serum IgM level to 3,020 mg/dL. However, after three courses, she refused to have any further therapy for the lymphoma and the tumors progressed again with an elevation of serum IgM to a level as high as 9,545 mg/dL in one year. The accumulation of the pleural fluid caused respiratory distress and she was transferred to another hospital for palliative purposes 18 months after the diagnosis of the lymphoma. She did not receive any anti-HCV treatment during the entire course of the disease.
