In May 2009 a 14-year-old female patient was admitted due to symptoms suggestive of deep vein thrombosis within the right lower limb. Th e patients history revealed peripheral neurofi bromatosis type 1 which was diagnosed at the age of 7 on the basis of her short stature, a histopathological examination of skin nodules excised from the lumbosacral region and the nail bed of the big toe (neurofi broma). Her father showed had mild symptoms of this disease. In 2001, the patient was diagnosed with a glioma of the right optic nerve with nerve atrophy and transient vision disturbances. Th e patient was admitted to hospital due to increasing pain and swelling of the right calf and foot; the symptoms occurred aft er a long hiking trip. Based on a physical examination, elevated concentration of D-dimers (723 ng / mL) and an ultrasound scan, we diagnosed a thrombus located in the popliteal vein with the thrombus tail located 12 cm above the knee joint. Abnormalities included short stature, numerous fl at light-brown skin lesions located on the trunk. Th e patient presented without symptoms of lower limb ischaemia; the ABI was 1.08 on the right and 1.13 on the left side respectively. Doppler and ultrasound scans used for the screening of popliteal entrapment syndrome during passive dorsal and forced plantar fl exion were negative. Th e patient was treated with a therapeutic dose of dalteparin, followed by a secondary prophylactic dose and a class 2 compression stocking. Aft er six months of antithrombotic treatment, we performed a follow-up evaluation and screening for thrombophilia. Heterozygotic C677T (C/T) mutation of the MTHFR gene was demonstrated which, in light of normal homocysteine levels (6.9 μmol / L), suggested that the mutation was of no importance in the etiopathogenesis of the thrombosis. Rheumatoid factor and antinuclear antibody tests were negative. Th e patient was referred to a pediatric oncology clinic, where a malignant neoplastic process was excluded on the basis of observations and tumour marker tests (normal levels of AFP, CA 15.3, CA125, and CA19.9). In light of the persistent poor recanalization of the thrombus as visualized in follow-up ultrasound scans, we performed an MRI examination of the right knee in search of anatomical abnormalities that might have caused vascular compression. No pathologic fi ndings were demonstrated during this examination. In September 2010, despite compression therapy the patient complained of swelling of the lower right limb. An ultrasound scan performed in the supine position with hip abduction and knee fl exion revealed a repositioning and modelling of the femoral vein and superfi cial femoral artery within the distal segment around a structural bone lesion. Th e scan was repeated upon limb extension, revealing the typical course of the vessels and, deeper, the presence of a bony tumour ( , 2). Radiographic examination of the femoral bone in two projections revealed the presence of a large, hook-shaped exostosis, 23 × 66 mm in size, at the distal part of the femoral shaft , with its tip pointing upwards and slightly towards the medial line. Th e exostosis (sessile type) stemmed from the posterior bone surface. An angio-CT revealed slight modelling of the femoral artery over the exostosis; the compressed vein was located between the artery and the bone lesion . Th e femoral and popliteal arteries showed normal fi lling. Dilated superfi cial veins were visualized around the exostosis and in the proximal ⅓ of the calf. Following identifi cation of the exostosis, we performed a palpation of the limb structures and revised the hither
