A 57-year-old female spin instructor was diagnosed with carcinoid syndrome following an evaluation for weight loss and diarrhea. Six months prior to diagnosis, a transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) performed for dyspnea showed a normal left ventricular (LV) size and ejection fraction (EF) with normal aortic and mitral valves (MV) and mild valvular regurgitation. She achieved 13.4 metabolic equivalents on a Bruce protocol exercise treadmill test. Over the next 6 months, she developed flushing, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and lower-extremity edema. Her exercise tolerance was limited to less than 1 block. A computer tomography (CT) scan revealed multiple hepatic, splenic, peritoneal, and pulmonary lesions. A hepatic biopsy revealed a carcinoid tumor, and the Ki-67 proliferative index was <1%. The chromogranin A level was 10,700 ng/ml ( table 1 ; reference range <93 ng/ml). Octreotide and furosemide led to symptomatic improvement, but she remained dyspneic. Physical examination revealed a blood pressure of 110/40 mm Hg and a pulse of 70 beats per minute. Quincke's sign was evident and pulses were collapsing. The jugular venous pulse was not elevated. Cardiac examination was significant for mild inferolateral displacement of the apical impulse, with a 3–4/4 short diastolic murmur as well as a 3/6 ejection flow murmur heard in the parasternal region. There was also a 3/6 pansystolic murmur at the apex with a prominent S3. She had mild lower-extremity edema. A repeat TTE ( fig. 1 ; online suppl. videos 1–4; for all online suppl. material, see www.karger.com/doi/10.1159/000441488) was performed 6 months after the initial examination and was remarkable for a thickened aortic valve (AV) with cusp retraction and restricted mobility of the right and noncoronary cusps resulting in severe AV regurgitation. The posterior leaflet of the MV was also thickened, with restricted mobility and subsequent override of the anterior leaflet, resulting in severe MV regurgitation. The PV was thickened with moderate regurgitation. In contrast, the TV demonstrated a normal thickness and mobility with mild tricuspid regurgitation. The LV was moderately-severely enlarged, with a calculated EF of 65%. There was mild right ventricular enlargement with normal systolic function and an estimated right ventricular systolic pressure of 81 mm Hg. There was no atrial level shunt by color flow imaging or agitated saline contrast injection performed at rest, with Valsalva, or while standing. An OctreoScan identified the small bowel as the likely tumor origin. The patient underwent AV (21-mm Trifecta), MV (29-mm Hancock), and PV (23-mm Hancock) replacement with tissue prostheses in addition to pericardial patch augmentation of the proximal aorta and the PV annulus. The TV was deemed normal on inspection by the surgeon. Gross and histopathologic examination of the surgically excised valves showed findings consistent with carcinoid valvulopathy ( fig. 2 , 3 ). TTE (on postoperative day 6) showed a borderline enlarged LV with an EF of 50%. The prosthetic valves were well-seated prosthetic valves with normal transvalvular gradients and no significant valvular or perivalvular regurgitation. The TV continued to show only mild tricuspid regurgitation. She was dismissed on postoperative day 6 and continued to do well at the 2-month follow-up.UCLAPatient 2 A 74-year-old woman with hypertension presented with profound watery diarrhea, weight loss, and lower-extremity edema. Examination was significant for edema, normal jugular venous pulsation, and a 1/6 systolic murmur along the left sternal border. Abdominal ultrasound to assess acute kidney injury showed multifocal hypodense lesions within the liver. A CT-guided biopsy revealed a moderately well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumor, with a Ki-67 proliferative index of 57%. The chromogranin A level was elevated at 11,560 nm/ml . An OctreoScan demonstrated no extrahepatic abdominal lesions. Long-acting octreotide resulted in improvement of the diarrhea; however, anasarca developed. On TTE, the AV and PV were thickened, with moderate regurgitation; the MV was thickened, with a retracted and fixed posterior leaflet, resulting in severe MV regurgitation ( a). The TV leaflets were of normal thickness and mobility with redundancy of the septal leaflet; this resulted in moderate, anteriorly directed tricuspid regurgitation ( b; online suppl. videos 5, 6). The RV was of normal size and function, with an estimated right ventricular systolic pressure of 51 mm Hg. The LV was borderline dilated with a normal EF (59%). No shunt was detected by standard echocardiographic imaging, but an agitated saline study was not performed. The patient was treated with carboplatin, etoposide, and aggressive diuresis, with plans to continue long-acting octreotide. Four days after the initiation of therapy, she was admitted with progressive dyspnea and mental status changes necessitating intubation and mechanical ventilation. Hypotension was managed with intravenous fluids, phenylephrine, and norepinephrine. A repeat TTE showed a slightly underfilled LV with hyperdynamic function (EF 80%). The right ventricle was mildly enlarged with normal systolic function. The estimated right ventricular systolic pressure was 81 mm Hg. Despite initial aggressive efforts at resuscitation, her multisystem organ failure progressed. She was transitioned to comfort care and died shortly thereafter. An autopsy was not performed.
