PEDIATRICS Volume 137 , number 2 ,
The patient ,11 months old, had been tired and irritable for 1 month before examination. At 7 months of age, he could sit without support. From 8 months of age onward, he showed less interest in interacting and was more unstable when sitting. At 9 months of age, his weight was 9 kg (z –0.28 DS) and his length was 68 cm (z –1.81 DS). At 11 months, the child was fairly healthy but was irritable, his weight was 8.5 kg (z –1.23 DS), his length was 71 cm (z –1.92 DS) ( , and his blood pressure was 98/56 mm Hg. He refused to support his legs on a solid surface and he cried during passive mobility of both lower limbs. There was no joint effusion and he had no gingival bleeding. The patient was born at term after an uneventful pregnancy (G2P2) and his birth weight was 3100 g. He was vaccinated according to the recommended Spanish guidelines. For the first 2.5 months of his life, the infant was fed with a cow's milk–based proprietary formula, in the absence of human breast milk. At this age, the infant developed dermatitis, and for this reason, feeding was changed based on recommendations from a medical doctor. His daily intake from age 2.5 to 11.0 months was approximately 900 to 960 mL of a prepared mixture. From 6 months of age onward, the mother had offered pureed fruits and vegetables in vain. The daily mixture consisted of ∼680 g almond drink (EcoMil Mandorla; Nutriops, SL, Murcia, Spain), 60 g almond flour (EcoMil Almond Instant; Nutriops, SL), 20 g sesame powder (EcoMil Sesamo; Nutriops, SL), a teaspoon of brown rice malt, 60 to 80 g of a cream of cereals (from brown rice and millet), and a sachet of Lactosul GG (Natysal Laboratories, Madrid, Spain) (Lactobacillus rhamnosus, fructooligosaccharides, and inulin). Mean energy intake during this period was 97 kcal/kg per day . Radiographs of the lower limbs showed osteopenia, cortical thinning, Wimberger ring, Frankel line, fracture, and periosteal reaction (The following were in the normal range: sodium, potassium, chloride, magnesium, pH, bicarbonate, calcium, phosphate, alkaline phosphatase, parathyroid hormone, free T4, anti-thyroglobulin and antimicrosomal antibodies, albumin, total protein, hemoglobin, mean cell volume, serum iron, transferrine, ferritine, folic acid, vitamin B 12 , and vitamin E. Clinical, laboratory, and radiologic findings along with the nutritional history were suggestive of infantile scurvy, failure to thrive, and vitamin D insufficiency.
The child was started on oral vitamins C and D replacement therapy at respective doses of 300 mg per day and 600 UI per day for 3 months. 13,14 He was fed with infant 2
