A 49-year-old woman was admitted to the emergency department brought by her family with a history of sudden onset of dyspnea and syncope, followed by right upper extremity paresis, aphasia and dysarthria. Her past medical history included the use of oral contraceptives for metrorrhagia and cholecystectomy for cholelithiasis. At admission, the patient did not present febrile, with a heart rate up to 120 beats per minute, blood pressure 130/70 mmHg, respiratory rate of 23 per minute, her oxygen saturation was 86% while breathing). Her brain computed tomography (CT) on admission was unremarkable. During the first hours a chest CT angiography was performed and showed multilobar and multisegmentary pulmonary embolism, with CT suggestive of right-sided overload. Computed tomography venography showed popliteal and infrapopliteal left deep venous thrombosis ( (I)). She was transferred to the ICU and placed on noninvasive mechanical ventilation. She did not require vasoactive drug support. Portable echocardiogram showed dilated right ventricle with impaired systolic function, moderate tricuspid regurgitation, arterial pulmonary pressure of 45 mmHg and positive bubble test, which suggest a patent foramen ovale. Brain MRI showed right cerebellar infarcts, periatrial, left superior and middle frontal embolic strokes . The patient was managed with unfractionated heparin and a transient inferior vena cava filter was placed. Subsequently, the foramen ovale was closed by an endovascular Amplatzer device placement, without any incident and with satisfactory results, echocardiogram showed resolution of the defect. The patient was discharged with anticoagulation therapy with acenocoumarol and permanent antiplatelet aggregation therapy was indicated.
A 60-year-old woman, previously asymptomatic, was admitted to the emergency department, brought by her relatives. She was found unconscious lying downin her bathroom after about an hour, without sphincter relaxation. Her past medical history included longstanding hypertension, dyslipidemia, bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome and use of hormone replacement therapy. She had a family history of a brother with paradoxical embolism. At admission, she was hemodynamically stable, without supplemental oxygen requirements. The neurological examination revealed expression aphasia, right hemianopsia, right central facial paralysis, right-side paresis and right Babinski with a National institute of Health Stroke Scale of 19. Her brain CT showed signs of recent left middle cerebral artery infarction, and images consistent with an intraluminal thrombus in the left supraclinoid carotid segments M1 and M2 ( (II)). She was managed with intravenous thrombolysis with Alteplase, but without clinical improvement. Afterwards, a brain MRI showed recent infarction in the territory of the middle cerebral artery without significant diffusion/perfusion mismatch images. An electroencephalography showed no epileptic activity or crisis pattern. In the following hours, the patient developed greater consciousness impairment and a new brain CT showed significant edema with mass effect and midline 5 mm deviation. A decompressive craniectomy was performed ( (II)). Within the etiological study, echocardiography showed patent foramen ovale, with spontaneous passage of bubbles from right to left. Lower extremities Doppler ultrasound showed a left infrapopliteal posterior tibial right deep venous thrombosis ( (II)). Considering recent decompressive craniectomy, an inferior vena cava filter was placed. Afterwards, unfractionated heparin was initiated and then overlapping with oral anticoagulation.
