A 27-year-old man with classical EDS consulted Kanazawa University hospital because his right knee became unstable when walking down stairs and it was difficult for him to walk. He had a history of arthroscopic lateral retinacular Y. Takata (&) Á J. Nakase Á H. Numata Á T. Oshima Á H. Tsuchiya Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Science, Kanazawa University, 13-1, Takara-machi, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 920-8641, Japan e-mail: y.takata.14@gmail.com release for atraumatic recurrent patellar dislocation of the left knee joint at the age of 14 years. Physical examination showed that there was swelling and tenderness at the anterior aspect of the right knee joint, with a negative result for the ballottement test. There was palpable concavity on the patellar tendon. The passive range of motion of the right knee was ?15° (hyperextension)-135° and active knee extension was impossible. Anteroposterior and lateral knee radiographs showed patella alta of the right knee in comparison with the left knee (Insall-Salvati ratio:right 2.02, left 1.42), and the absence of fracture or ossification . Ultrasonography showed interruption of the fibrillar pattern in the patellar tendon . Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the right knee revealed a rupture in the midsubstance of the patellar tendon on T2-weighted images . Tendon repair was performed 5 days after injury under general anesthesia. A longitudinal midline incision was made from the superior pole of the patella to the tibial tuberosity. It was found that the midsubstance of the patellar tendon had ruptured into two pieces. The distal end of the ruptured patellar tendon was sutured using the Krackow technique and No. 2 FiberWire, which was pulled out through the longitudinal bone tunnel (u 2.4 mm) of the patella and tied to the superior pole at a flexed knee position of 60°. The proximal end of the ruptured patellar tendon was sutured to the distal end . Additionally, the semitendinosus and gracilis muscle tendon was harvested from the pes anserinus without detachment of the tibial insertion, and was passed through the horizontal bone tunnel of the patella (u 4.5 mm) and proximal tibia (u 3.5 mm) to augment the connection of the sutured side of the patellar tendon. The proximal end of the hamstring tendon was sutured to the tibia using a suture anchor . After the operation, the patient was placed in a long-leg cylinder cast. After 4 weeks, he started doing partial weight-bearing and passive range of motion exercises. Eight weeks after the surgery, the patient performed full weight-bearing and full range of motion exercises for 6 months. Postoperative imaging at 9 months showed good patellar arrangement and continuity of the repaired patellar tendon . One year after the surgery, the patient was able to walk without crutches, use his knee joint without pain and had an active range of motion of 0° (passive 20°)–145°; and was able to perform a straight leg raise without an extension lag .
