An 18-year-old boy was referred to us with a history of blister and vesicle formation on sun-exposed body parts, since eight years of age, which used to heal with difficulty. Gradually, the areas that developed blisters became sclerotic. Over two years, he developed progressive abdominal distension with recurrent pedal edema and dyspnea at rest. There was no history of jaundice, blood transfusion, abdominal pain, chest pain, productive cough, or fever. On examination, skin examination revealed ulcers, hyperkeratosis, hypopigmentation, and fibrosis in sun-exposed skin, especially on the face, scalp, ears, arms, and hands (which were severely mutilated; )). In our patient, there were elevated levels of both uroporphyrins and coproporphyrins in the erythrocytes, suggesting a diagnosis of congenital erythropoietic porphyria. Sputum examination was negative for tuberculosis. Bone marrow examination revealed hypercellular bone marrow, erythroid hyperplasia with reversed erythroid to myeloid ratio, and increased iron stores. Abdominal ultrasound revealed hepatomegaly, ascites, and massive splenomegaly with dilated splenic and portal vein. Two-dimensional echocardiography and computed tomographic scan revealed thickened calcific pericardium with features suggestive of constrictive pericarditis . With these features, the patient was planned for initial total pericardiectomy followed by splenectomy for hypersplenism. The patient was hydrated adequately one day before the procedure. The medicines known to precipitate porphyria were avoided throughout the hospital stay. Decision was taken for midline sternotomy approach for pericardiectomy. During induction, care was taken to avoid exposure of the patient to the operating room lights. For this, patient was induced first without operation table light, which was switched on only after the patient was prepped and draped fully. Before sternotomy, a peritoneal dialysis catheter was inserted into the peritoneal cavity and 2 L of serous ascitic fluid was drained. When sternotomy was performed, the sternal marrow had a loose cheeselike consistency, and hemostasis was achieved with difficulty. Total pericardiectomy was then performed, including removal of the diaphragmatic component and the anterior pericardium from 1 cm anterior to the phrenic nerve on either side. While performing total pericardiectomy, we ensured removal of the epicardial peel of Allison along with the thickened, calcific parietal pericardium to prevent recurrence. Intraoperatively, on completion of pericardiectomy, he was started on an infusion of dopamine (5 mg/kg min) to improve cardiac output and renal perfusion. Postoperatively, to reduce total body water, intravenous fluids were restricted to 1.0 mL/kg/h and oral angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors were administered before weaning from inotropic agents. Immediately after surgery, there was reduction in mean right atrial pressure from 26 to 9 mm Hg. He was extubated on the first postoperative day. Postoperative echocardiography revealed normal cardiac function. Digoxin, diuretics, and ACE inhibitors were weaned at varying time intervals. Histopathology of excised pericardium revealed thickened calcific pericardium without granuloma, necrosis, inflammation, fibrin, or pigment deposition . Although we do not anticipate any recurrence, he has been followed closely with six-month clinical examinations, electrocardiograms, chest radiographs, echocardiography, and corrective measures to address anemia and thrombocytopenia. Stem cell transplantation has been described to the patient as a therapeutic option in case of recurrence and failure of conservative management.
