A 24-year-old woman who had already been diagnosed with BD and Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) presented with dyspnea, palpitation and chest pain. On physical examination, abdominal ascites was detected. ECG and chest roentgenogram were normal. On the abdominal sonography, hepatic and portal venous thrombosis were detected. Computed tomography (CT) of the thorax revealed no pathological sign. Two-dimensional transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) revealed a serpentine mass on the right atrium (RA) protruding to the right ventricle (RV) . The mass was evaluated as an ICT. Cyclophosphamide therapy was added to the colchicine and methyl-prednisolone treatment that she had already been taking. In addition, intravenous heparin treatment was started for the ICT. On the fifteenth day of therapy, the TTE was repeated. Complete lysis of the thrombus was observed. No episodes of thrombus formation were detected on TTE performed at 6, 12 and 24 months after discharge. A 21-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with persistent cough, dyspnea and hemoptysis of unknown origin. He had been suffering from genital and oral ulcers for over 2 years. On physical examination, tachypnea, decrease of breath sounds in the basal region of the left lung, healing scars from genital ulcers and superficial thrombophlebitis were detected. The patient fulfilled the ISG criteria for the diagnosis of BD. Chest X-ray revealed left hilar enlargement. Thoracic CT revealed dilatation of the left main pulmonary artery and a mass configuration in the RV . TTE revealed the presence of a thrombus (3 × 3 cm) in the RV . We administered 60 mg methyl-prednisolone and 1 g intravenous cyclophosphamide per day. We ordered heparin therapy, followed by oral anticoagulation, despite the presence of pulmonary aneurysms. After 1 month, the control echocardiography showed that the thrombus had decrease in size by more than one-half (1.2 × 1.4 cm). Three month later, the thrombus had disappeared on TTE. The patient was still being monitored, without recurrence, 24 months later.
A 28-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with the complaints of progressive dyspnea, fatigue and leg edema for the last 2 months. He had recurrent oral and genital ulcers for 1 year, and he was not receiving any medicaltherapy. On his physical examination, ulcer scars on the scrotum and oral mucosa and pseudofolliculitis were found. The patient fulfilled the ISG criteria for the diagnosis of BD. During the cardiac evaluation, grade 2/6 systolic and diastolic murmurs were heard in the tricuspid area. ECG and chest X-ray were normal. The pathergy test was positive. Thoracic CT revealed right ventricular masses. On TTE, a mass was detected on the anterior leaflet of the tricuspid valve . The mass invaded almost onethird of the RV and protruded into the RA during diastole. Doppler examination of the tricuspid valve revealed mild obstruction with a mean gradient of 5 mmHg and mild tricuspid regurgitation. A combination of 1 g intravenous cyclophosphamide, 40 mg intravenous dexamethasone, 0.5 mg/kg per day warfarin and colchicine (50 mg) three times daily was administered. Heparin therapy was started, followed by oral anticoagulation. After 1 month, the thrombus in the RV had diminished in size by almost one-half, as observed during the control TTE. Three months after presentation, echocardiogram showed complete resolution of the ICT. At 2 years, TTE revealed no thrombus formation and the patient was free of symptoms.
A 28-year-old man with BD was admitted to the hospital with the complaints of progressive dyspnea and fatigue for a couple of months. Physical examination was entirely normal. TTE revealed a thrombus in the right atrium, and diagnosis confirmed with transesophageal echocardiography . Immunosuppressive and anticoagulant therapies were administered; however, resolution was not observed within 24 months.
