An 85-year-old man with a history of congestive heart failure, intermittent claudication, non–dialysis-dependent renal failure, and previous open AAA repair was referred with necrosis of the third and fourth toe of the right foot. Cardiovascular risk factors included hypertension and former nicotine abuse. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) showed a right-sided 40-mm popliteal aneurysm and, coincidentally, a fusiform, 38-mm left CIAA  at a distance from the distal anastomosis of the existing aortic tube graft. The proximal CIA neck length was 37.2 mm and the length of the aneurysm itself was 68 mm. The diameter of the CIA was 9.7 mm at its orifice and 21.4 mm at the level of the hypogastric bifurcation. The volume of the aneurysm was 48.2 mL. There was no endoluminal thrombus present. After informed consent, it was decided to treat both aneurysms in a single endovascular procedure. The patient was given regional anesthesia, antibiotic prophylaxis, and 5000 units of heparin. Via bilateral femoral artery cutdowns, the right popliteal aneurysm was first excluded with two 100×11-mm Viabahn endoprostheses (W. L. Gore & Associates, Flagstaff, AZ, USA). Subsequently, calibrated angiography of the left iliac artery confirmed the 100×10-mm length for the Nellix device  determined from the central lumen line reconstruction of the preoperative CT scan. The endosystem was advanced over a stiff wire and positioned so that the distal 1 mm of the bare metal part of the endosystem would end in the proximal external iliac artery, thereby preserving hypogastric flow though the stent struts. After angiographic confirmation, the stent was deployed, and the endobag was deployed by prefilling with saline solution to a pressure of 180 mm Hg. A control angiogram showed proper positioning without endoleak and sustained IIA perfusion. The saline solution was removed from the endobag, and 45 mL of polymer was injected to a pressure of 200 mm Hg, then the endoprosthesis was re-expanded using a 10-mm angioplasty balloon as the polymer cured. Completion angiography demonstrated complete exclusion of the left CIAA with patent internal and external branches . The postoperative course was uneventful, and patient was discharged in good clinical condition at the fifth postoperative day. The patient was treated with dual antiplatelet therapy owing to the covered stent in the popliteal artery. Follow-up consisted of duplex ultrasound before discharge, CTA at 6 weeks, duplex imaging at 6 months, and CTA at 1 year. During follow-up, the ulcerated toes healed, and there were no ischemic complications or signs of buttock claudication, with an ankle-brachial index of 0.99 on the right and 1.09 on the left side. The initial duplex ultrasound and CTA showed an excluded left CIAA, without endoleak, and patency of the IIA . At 1 year, duplex documented a decrease in diameter of the left CIAA from 34 to 32 mm, while the right popliteal aneurysm had a stable diameter. There were no signs of endoleak or thrombotic complications.
