14-year old Caucasian boy was admitted to the pediatric unit complaining with severe pain of the left hip and internal thigh area that was exacerbated by compression and flexion of a hip. The patient was unable to walk and stand upright. Clinical examination revealed femoral artery pulse asymmetry with weaker left femoral pulse combined with asymmetrically increased circumference of the left lower limb greater by 1 cm at the levels of mid-thigh and mid-calf. Additionally, salmon-colored rush was spread on his trunk. 2 weeks before admission the patient underwent appendectomy with removal of purulent but not perforated appendix. Ultrasonography (USG) with the Doppler probe during postoperative period provided atypical image with difficulties in visualizing the inferior vena cava. The pain occurred 10 days after surgery and was constricting the movement of the left hip. Continuously aggravating pain was accompanied with subfebrile temperature (<38°C ) and elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) levels. The abdominal USG and roentgenograms of the hip showed no abnormalities, but amoxicillin treatment has been initiated. After 5 days, due to the constantly elevated CRP levels and temperature that raised up to 38°C , the patient was referred to the pediatric unit. At admission CRP level was in 8-fold reference range, D-dimer and fibrinogen concentrations were also elevated with values 326 μg/ml and 615 mg/dL, respectively. The ultrasonography showed deep venous thrombosis of left lower limb, vena cava inferior was not visualized. CT angiogram ( .) revealed the absence of inferior vena cava from common iliac veins connection to the confluence of hepatic veins. The patient had a short segment of inferior vena cava between the normal sized hepatic veins and the right atrium. The venous drainage from lower limbs and pelvis was found to be supplied by collateral circulation that includes varicosely dilated veins: azygos and hemiazygos, paraspinal and mesenteric. Additionally, the CT angiogram showed thrombus within left-sided popliteal vein, femoral vein, external and internal iliac veins and common iliac vein to the level of L4 vertebra. Further diagnostics were consequently performed. Anticardiolipin IgM and IgG antibodies and antinuclear antibodies were not detected. Tests for rheumatoid factor, anti-CCP antibodies and thrombophilia screening, which included genetic diagnostics for Leiden V factor, protein C and protein S, were also negative. The antithromobotic treatment has been started with 80 mg of enoxaparin s.c. twice daily with elevation and compression dressings for the full length of left lower limb. Control laboratory tests performed after 2 days of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) treatment revealed that CRP, D-dimer and fibrinogen concentrations have lowered. Patient's temperature was constantly elevated and did not decrease below 38°C . Enzyme immunoassay (EIA) in serum detected Mycoplasma pneumoniae IgM, IgA and IgG antibodies with concentrations 1.258 S/CO, 25.183 EIU and 170.619 EIU, respectively. This pattern is typical for the early stage of infection. The antibiotic was changed to clarithromycin p.o. with the effect of normothermia after two days of treatment. The pain relieved, skin rash faded and after a couple of days both disappeared. The patient received clarithromycin in the recommended dose for 14 days. The initial antithrombotic treatment has been continued. The patient was advised to use fitted compression stocking, elevate leg at rest and avoid thrombogenic risk factors such as strenuous physical activity or prolonged immobilization. After 1 month, Mycoplasma pneumoniae antibodies in classes IgM, IgA and IgG were constantly being detected in serum and the concentrations indicated early infection. USG performed after 3 months of LMWH treatment showed reduction of initial thrombosis with recanalization of the left popliteal vein. The antithrombotic treatment has been continued with 80 mg of enoxaparin s.c. twice daily with subsequent USG control planned after following 3 months.
