A 57-year-old male visited the emergency room (ER) of our hospital after a fall injury from a height of ~3 m. At the time of admission, his vital signs were blood pressure (BP) 80/50 mmHg, heart rate 120 beat/min, and a respiratory rate increased to 26 breaths/min. Due to a decreasing level of consciousness and loss of voluntary respiration, we intubated the patient and estimated the small amount of pericardial effusion in Focused Assessment with Sonography for Trauma (FAST), and this finding did not deteriorate the hemodynamic condition. And then, we decided to perform the computed tomography (CT) scan for a more in-depth examination. However, the patient developed cardiac arrest during the CT scans. We performed cardiac massage for 20 min, but the heartbeat did not recover spontaneously. We inserted a cannula into his right femoral vein and femoral artery to start venous-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VA-ECMO). After ECMO was started, his vital signs changed to blood pressure 120/68 mmHg, heart rate 143 beat/min, arterial blood gas analysis (ABGA) pH 7.24, partial pressure of CO 2 35 mmHg, partial pressure of O 2 419 mmHg, base excess (BE-E)-11.3 mmol/L, all of which improved since initiation of ECMO support. The chest CT results indicated cardiac tamponade with a large hemopericardium and sternal fracture. We diagnosed the patient with cardiac injury caused by the blunt trauma and decided to perform an emergency operation . During a median sternotomy, we found a rupture in the distal one-third portion of the coronary sinus, an oval-shaped defect, ~2 cm in its longest dimension with sharp lacerations in the margin. There was an epicardial hematoma in the area surrounding the rupture, but no other damage was found. After we performed a conventional cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), we discontinued the ECMO and attempted primary repair on the ruptured coronary sinus . However, because we decided that the patient was not ready to be weaned off CPB, the ECMO flow was resumed and the patient was transferred to the ICU. There, we initiated therapeutic hypothermia while maintaining neuromonitoring using electroencephalography (EEG). On postoperative day 1, the patient was able to open his eyes spontaneously, but did not recover consciousness under sustained cardiogenic shock. On postoperative day 2, he died of refractory cardiogenic shock.
