We report the case of an 85-year-old patient who was admitted with a 12-h history of left-sided pleuritic chest pain. Her past medical history included a tissue aortic valve replacement 6 years previously, hypertension and osteoarthritis. She had no history of bleeding or clotting disorders and was not on any anticoagulant medication. On admission, her observations were all within the normal range and examination was normal. She had an increased d-dimer (2121). Haemoglobin was 145 g/l; clotting profile and platelet levels were normal. She was started on treatment dose dalteparin (15,000 iU once daily, as per hospital protocol) for a suspected pulmonary embolus, and a VQ scan was requested. On the third day of admission, the patient complained of some cramp-like pain in her right thigh. Examination was normal; there were no neurological or vascular signs. The VQ scan was undertaken and was negative for pulmonary embolus. As such, she was converted to prophylactic dose dalteparin (5,000 iU). Over the following 6 days her mobility decreased and she developed weakness of the right hip and knee. She also developed extensive bruising to the right thigh with no apparent trauma. Neurological examination revealed decreased tone and Grade 1 power of hip flexion and knee extension in the right lower limb. There was reduced sensation to light touch and pinprick in the L2-3 dermatomes and absent knee and ankle jerk reflexes. Haemoglobin was found to be 77 g/l. Dalteparin was stopped due to suspicion of occult bleeding. An MRI scan was requested to identify the source of occult haemorrhage and exclude a spinal cause for her neurological decline. The MRI scan revealed bilateral psoas haematomas (see ), with the right being more extensive than the left, resulting in compression of the lumbar plexus. Neurophysiology testing revealed abnormal nerve conduction in the right femoral nerve with no voluntary action in the right quadriceps muscle. It was felt that the changes were severe due to the extent of sensory loss and paralysis. The neurological status of the left lower limb was normal. Treatment options were discussed with the patient. Following a literature review and multidisciplinary discussion, in view of her relative co-morbidities and the potential for complications, it was decided to treat her conservatively. She underwent extensive physiotherapy and at the point of discharge was walking well with a Zimmer frame. At followup 6 months later, she was still walking with a frame and had regained Grade 3 power of hip flexors and knee extensors.
