A 31-year-old Chinese woman was referred to Department of Gastroenterology for abdominal distention along with anorexia for 2 months. The patient's past medical history was not special except for a history of a recurrent scleritis in the recent half of the year. Two months ago before admission, the patient noticed abdominal distention and anorexia without nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage. One month ago, intermittent fever, fatigue, oral ulcer, and malaise developed gradually. Weight loss of 5 kg over a 2-month period was observed. Ultrasonography of abdomen and the first gastroscopy were made in a local hospital, where the patient was suspected of having stomach cancer. The patient was then referred to our hospital for further evaluation. Physical examination revealed oral and lip ulcers. Laboratory data demonstrated that white blood cell counts 14,430/ul (segmental neutrophils 72.7 %, lymphocyte 10.6 %, and eosinophil 14.2 %), hemoglobin 7.62 g/ dl with normocytic normochromic anemia, ESR 101 mm/h (reference range 0–25 mm/h), and CRP 11.90 mg/dl (reference range 0–0.8 mg/dl). Liver function was normal, except for a hypoalbuminemia of 2.9 g/dl (reference range 4.0–5.5 g/dl). Blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, and lactate dehydrogenase were all of normal levels. Serologic studies for hepatitis B and C, human immunodeficiency virus, and cytomegalovirus were all negative. Urinalysis showed neither hematuria nor albuminuria. Rheumatoid factor and fluorescent antinuclear antibody were negative. ANCA test was positive in cytoplasmic pattern with the titer of 1:320. In the enzyme immunoassay, anti-proteinase 3 antibody was positive with 780.0 AAU (reference range for negative: less than 150 AAU, reference range for equivocal: 150–180 AAU), but the anti-myeloperoxidase (MPO) antibody was negative. Other autoantibody tests, including anti-double-strand DNA, anti-SSA/ SSB, anti-Jo-1, anti-Scl-70, and anti-centromere, were all negative. Chest radiography and computed tomography scan of the chest showed no intrapulmonary nodular shadow or lung inflammation. Pulmonary function tests were normal. The esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) revealed a diffusely thickened gastric wall with friable mucosa and multiple areas of ulceration, especially with giant ulcer at pylorus  and gastric angle . Biopsy examination indicated a chronic inflammation with mucosal ulceration and many neutrophils and lymphocytes infiltration and local granulomatous formation , whereas no evidence of stomach carcinoma was observed. EGD was repeated, and the same results were acquired. In view of the clinical constitutional symptoms, elevated acute-phase reactants, and positive cANCA test, together with the local granulomatous formation in the gastric biopsy examination, we considered a diagnosis of GPA in this patient. Though a nonspecific feature, scleritis has been considered as an important manifestation in ANCA-associated vasculitis . The recurrent scleritis in the recent past of the patient provided an important evidence for the diagnosis of GPA. EUVAS regimen for the treatment for ANCA-associated vasculitides was adopted. Immunosuppressive treatment was started with high-dose prednisone (50 mg/d) and cyclophosphamide (0.6 g/2 weeks for the first threepulses, followed by infusions every 3 weeks for the next 3–6 pulses). A prompt clinical response was achieved. Her symptoms disappeared gradually, and the laboratory findings were improved. The doses of prednisone were tapered gradually. In the next 4 months, she came to our department regularly and had been doing well at low dose of prednisone (10 mg/d) in combination with cyclophosphamide. However, the patient strongly refused a repeat gastroscopy. After taking the eighth pulse of cyclophosphamide, the patient was not able to be reached. Six months later, she returned to our department again for the signs of fever, malaise, hematuria (>20 RBC/HP), and proteinuria (1.8 g/24 h) but without gastrointestinal manifestations. She stopped taking all of the drugs by herself about 5 months ago. Then, the patient was admitted for further evaluation, and renal biopsy was taken. A renal biopsy showed an enlarged mesangial area with the proliferation of cells and mononuclear infiltrates in the interstitium. Some glomeruli showed cellular crescentic and fibrous crescentic changes . The histology of kidney further confirmed the diagnosis of GPA. Thereafter, the patient again received a combination of cyclophosphamide (intravenous or oral) and glucocorticoids for remission induction and has been intensively followed up by now.
