A 65-year-old man experienced two episodes of intestinal obstruction, a fever, and joint pain over the previous 6 months. He had a 20-year history of RA treated with 5 mg of prednisolone and 30 mg of lansoprazole daily. He had smoked 10 cigarettes a day for 40 years. Four months before the present episode, he was admitted to another hospital for treatment of an intestinal obstruction and intestinal emphysema complicated with sepsis, which improved with conservative medical therapy. Two months later, he experienced another episode of intestinal obstruction. On this occasion, prednisolone therapy was stopped, which caused recurrence of the fever and joint pain. The resumption of prednisolone, fasting, and a course of antibiotics failed to improve his condition. Because his general status deteriorated, he was transferred to the general medicine department of our hospital. A physical examination on this admission revealed a height of 155 cm and body weight of 41.4 kg (body mass index, 17.2 kg/m 2 ). He was alert and oriented. His blood pressure was 127/87 mmHg, heart rate was 92 beats/min and regular, body temperature was 36.6°C, respiratory rate was 12 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation was 96% on Department of General Medicine, Saga University Hospital, Saga University, Japan Received for publication
; Accepted for publication July 15, 2015 Correspondence to Dr. Masaki Tago, tagomas@edu.cc.saga-u.ac.jpWBC: white blood cells, Seg: segmented neutrophils, Ly: lymphocytes, Mono: monocytes, Eo: eosinophils, RBC: red blood cells, Hb: hemoglobin, Ht: hematocrit, Plt: platelets, T-bil: total bilirubin, ALP: alkaline phosphatase,-GTP:-glutamyl transferase, AST: aspartate aminotransferase, ALT: alanine aminotransferase, LDH: lactate dehydrogenase, BUN: blood urea nitrogen, Cr: creatinine, TP: total protein, Alb: albumin, Na: sodium, K: potassium, Cl: chloride, CRP: C-reactive protein, SAA: serum amyloid A, IgG: immunoglobulin G, IgA: immunoglobulin A, IgM: immunoglobulin M, C3: complement C3, C4: complement C4, CH50: 50% complement hemolytic unit, IC: immune complex, RF: rheumatoid factor, ANA: antinuclear antibody, MPO-ANCA: myeloperoxidase anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, PR3-ANCA: proteinase 3 anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, anti-RNP antibody: anti-ribonucleoprotein antibody, anti-Sm antibody: anti-Smith antibody, anti-SS-A antibody: anti-Sjögren's syndrome A antibody, anti-SS-B antibody: anti-Sjögren's syndrome B antibody, anti-GBM antibody: anti-glomerular basement membrane antibody, MMP3: matrix metalloproteinase-3,room air. Although his bowel sounds were neither faint nor loud, his abdomen was distended and tympanic resonance was present upon abdominal percussion. He had pain, tenderness, and heat in the right shoulder, both elbows, and knees. He had a pitting edema on both sides of his dorsalis pedis. Laboratory findings on admission are shown in The patient had an extremely high level of rheumatoid factor (3,610 IU/mL; reference range, 0-15 IU/mL) and decreased levels of complement. A Radiographic examinations of his hands revealed joint deformity and joint space narrowing in the bilateral fingers . Chest and abdominal computed tomography revealed bilateral pleural effusion and stenosis of the ileum due to swelling of the intestinal wall in the lower part of the abdomen . A small bowel series on the third day of hospitalization revealed an approximately 5-to 6-cm length of severe stenosis, 50 cm rostral to the ileocecal junction . Endoscopy of the small intestine on the seventh day confirmed the results of the small bowelseries and revealed ulcer scars around the stenotic lesion . Deposition of amyloid was not present in the rectal biopsy specimens on a histopathological examination. Thoracentesis was performed to rule out infectious causes of the patient's fever and showed transudate pleural effusion with a negative culture. The blood culture was negative, and echocardiography showed no vegetation on the cardiac valves. Empirical treatment with a course of cefmetazole failed to improve his fever. We began intravenous fluid therapy with prohibition of oral intake of food or fluid on the day of admission. Oral prednisolone was also changed to parenteral administration at 10 mg/day, after which the patient's fever declined. On the 16th day of hospitalization, laparoscopic resection of the stenotic lesion was performed because his intestinal obstruction failed to improve with conservative treatment. The patient had multiple ulcers in the surgically removed intestine, which would have most likely eventually have become perforated . A histopathological examination with hematoxylin-eosin staining revealed perivascular infiltration of neutrophils or lymphocytes and fibrinoid necrosis around the blood vessels . Additionally, Elastica van Gieson staining showed fragmentation of the elastic fibers around the blood vessels . Amyloid deposition was not observed by Congo red staining. We diagnosed the patient with rheumatoid vasculitis as the cause of the ileal obstruction. The patient began treatment with 30 mg/day of prednisolone on the 32nd day and 6 mg/week of methotrexate on the 36th day. After his symptoms and laboratory findings improved, we began to taper the dose of prednisolone to 12.5 mg/day and increased the methotrexate dose to 8 mg/week on the 62nd hospital day, at which time the patient was discharged from our hospital.A B C neous lesions or peripheral neuropathy. RA may be associated with gastrointestinal diseases such as amyloidosis and vasculitis of the intestine (7). Both RA and the medications prescribed to treat it may lead to gastrointestinal diseases. For instance, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs are a major inducer of gastrointestinal ulcers (8). Our patient had no previous history of regular use of large amounts of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and no pathological findings of amyloidosis were present on the histological examination. According to previous reports, approximately 10% of patients with rheumatoid vasculitis have digestive problems including ischemia of the intestine, hepatorrhagia, appendicitis, and pancreatitis (3). The jejunum is more frequently involved than the ileum, which can develop erosions, ulcers, and bleeding. These lesions can deteriorate suddenly and quickly, resulting in perforation or infarction of the small intestine (7). Most small bowel obstructions involve adhesion, hernia, tumors, or Crohn's disease, even in patients with RA (9), and small bowel obstruction due to small intestinal vasculitis as seen in the present case is rather rare. Rheumatoid vasculitis causes recurrent erosions and ulcers in the small intestine, which possibly result in stenotic lesions leading to bowel obstruction (3). Small intestinal conditions occurring in association with rheumatoid vasculitis typically have a poor prognosis (10, 11). A previous report described cases of perforated small bowel secondary to rheumatoid vasculitis in Japan (10). Despite surgical treatment, six of these patients died within 3 months postoperatively. Another report described a case of jejunal vasculitis with the symptoms and signs of peritonitis caused by RA (12). The authors also reviewed four cases of intestinal vasculitis with RA. Furthermore, only two cases of intestinal obstruction due to rheumatoid vasculitis have been reported in Japan; one involved an obstruction in the sigmoid colon, and the other involved an obstruction in the ileum (11). Because of the serious nature of bowel obstruction due to rheumatoid vasculitis, it is mandatory to consider this diagnosis, although rare, when patients with a long history of severe RA show abdominal symptoms. Currently, there is no established treatment for rheumatoid vasculitis. High-dose corticosteroids are generally prescribed, occasionally followed by immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, or methotrexate (3). Although there are some reports of biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, the efficacy of these drugs has not yet been shown (3). Rheumatoid vasculitis typically requires aggressive immunosuppressive therapy. However, since the present patient's condition was not poor on admission, we started immunosuppressive therapy after the diagnosis was confirmed by the histological examination. Fortunately, vasculitis in our patient was controllable with 30 mg/day of prednisolone and 8 mg/week of methotrexate. In summary, we have presented the first English-language case report of small intestinal obstruction with ileal stenosis caused by rheumatoid vasculitis in Japan. Clinicians should therefore keep in mind that small intestinal stenosis due to rheumatoid vasculitis is one of the causes of small intestinal obstruction. Such knowledge will thus allow for an early diagnosis and thereby prevent a poor prognosis in patients presenting with this potentially critical condition.
