A 79-year-old male with end-stage renal disease underwent regular hemodialysis through the left brachiocephalic polytetrafl uoroethylene (PTFE) graft. He suff ered from a six-month history of recurrent painful massive arm swelling due to chronic central vein obstruction; three episodes of percutaneous balloon angioplasty (PTA) were completed before stent implantation, but he remained symptom-free for only a short period Duplex ultrasonography revealed passive dilatation of the cephalic vein without stenosis between elbow and shoulder. Orthograde fl ow was detected at the left t internal jugular vein. Th e volAfter successful crossing of the obstruction and pre-dilatation by the balloon catheter, angiography revealed a tight stenosis at the junction between the SVC and LIV (arrow). (B) The intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) imaging revealed some organized thrombus which was composed of a mixed hyper (light white arrow) and hypo-echoic area (bold white arrow). The white arrowhead for the vessel wall of LIV was marked.ume fl ow of this graft was 925 ml/ min, and many superfi cial collateral veins were visible in the left upper chest and lower neck. Antegrade venography showed total occlusion of the left subclavian vein with faint refi lling of the superior vena cava (SVC) via many collateral branches ( Th erapeutics, Rancho Cordova, CA, USA) revealed a stenosis at the junction of the LIV and the SVC along with an organized thrombus ( , B). A 14 × 120 mm self-expanding nitinol stent (E-Luminexx ™ , Bard, Tempe, AZ, USA) was deployed from the LIV to the subclavian vein followed by a 12 × 40 mm balloon catheter (Mustang, Boston Scientifi c) for post-dilatation. Th e result of angiography in diastole was acceptable but dynamic lumen collapse in systole was noted in both angiography and IVUS imaging ( – D). Th e pullback pressure measurement by 4F Judkins right catheter showed a signifi cant pressure gradient between the SVC and LIV (14 vs. 28 mm Hg) . Aft erwards, an additional 16 × 60 mm WallStent ® (Boston Scientifi c) was deployed using a " stentin-stent " technique, followed by post-dilatation with a high pressure balloon catheter (Conquest ™ , Bard). Similar results of angiography were obtained in both the systolic and the diastolic phase ( , B). Full stent expansion without dynamic collapse ( , d) and resolution of the pressure gradient (SVC vs. LIV; 14vs.14 mm Hg) were noted by both IVUS and hemodynamic reassessment . Th ereaft er, computed chest tomography (CT) proved the extrinsic compression of the LIV by the right brachiocephalic artery ( , B). In the left arm painful swelling symptoms were completely relieved aft er the intervention. A follow-up venography and hemodynamic evaluation six months aft er intervention showed a patent stent with neither a stenosis nor a pressure gradient.
