A 53-year-old man was referred to our hospital and immediately hospitalized in the cardiac care unit due to pericardial effusion accompanied by a fever of 38.0 in early July 2014. His medical history was notable for diabetes mellitus and hypertension diagnosed 16 and 3 years earlier, respectively. He also had brain-stem infarction at 50 years of age, however, he had subsequently recovered with few sequelae. Renal impairment [serum creatinine (Cr) 4.40 mg/ dL] with overt proteinuria (1.9 g/day) was consistent with diabetic nephropathy, and retinal lesions were present. The patient was transported to a local hospital by ambulance due to dyspnea and chest pain, which had started a couple ofweeks earlier and suddenly worsened. The findings on physical examinations were blood pressure 121/78 mmHg, heart rate 120 beats/min, and respiratory rate 26 breaths/min (orthopnea). A heart shadow was severely enlarged ( ; cardiothoracic ratio 65.8%) and ultrasonography revealed a severely-compressed right ventricle due to a large amount of fluid in the pericardium . Computed tomography (CT) delineated a moderate amount of pleural effusion, in addition to pericardial effusion , whereas few chest abnormalities had been previously apparent in an examination in April 2014. Approximately 600 mL of wine-colored pericardial effusion was drained by needling under ultrasonic guidance. Laboratory tests showed cell count 16,700/ mm 3 , protein 5.7 g/dL, glucose 0.11 g/dL, lactate dehydrogenase 1,591 mU/mL, and rheumatoid factor (RF) 128×. Acute myocardial infarction was ruled out according to the lack of ventricular asynergy, elevation of serum cardiac enzymes (e.g. creatine phosphokinase 152 mU/mL), and abnormal ST segments in the electrocardiogram. Thus, the patient was diagnosed with acute pericarditis and the pericardial space was significantly reduced following pericardiocentesis . Incidentally, friction rub was not heard in auscultation. Tumor lesions were not found on thoracoabdominal CT and malignant cells were cytologically negative in the pericardial effusion. In light of the initial clinical presentations, two possible etiologies were considered. First, antimicrobial therapy was conducted for more than three weeks because of a highgrade fever and elevated inflammatory markers on the blood tests [white blood cell counts up to 22,000/μL; C-reactive protein (CRP) level up to 35.90 mg/dL], which strongly suggested an infectious disorder . The patient received 500 mg of levofloxacin tentatively on the first day, followed by a 22-day course of intravenous infusion of 2.25 g of piperacillin/tazobactam thrice daily. Vancomycin was additionally administered using therapeutic drug monitoring. Despite partial declines in his fever and serum CRP level (down to 5.63 mg/dL; ), no microbial species was detected in a cultivation test of the drained pericardial effusion and T-SPOT.TB gave a negative test result.The second possibility was uremia, according to the deterioration of markers for renal impairment (e.g. blood urea nitrogen 75 mg/dL; serum Cr 6.33 mg/dL) with significant oliguria (urine output 155 mL/day; ). An electrolyte imbalance (potassium 5.4 mmol/L) and metabolic acidosis (pH 7.338; carbon dioxide pressure 28.9 mmHg; bicarbonate 15.7 mmol/L; anion gap 20.3 mmol/L) were also noted. Therefore, thrice-weekly HD was initiated using central venous catheterization on the day after hospitalization. Serum Cr and inorganic phosphate levels elevated to 12.60 mg/dL  and 9.5 mg/dL, respectively, shortly thereafter, even under dialysis therapy, in support of the conclusion of severely impaired renal function. A urinalysis showed characteristics of diabetic nephropathy: overt proteinuria (1.894 g/ gCr) without significant hematuria and a variety of casts. Serum biomarkers for rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis, such as anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCAs) directed against myeloperoxidase and proteinase 3, were not detected in chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassays. A urinary obstruction was not evident on CT. In contrast, marked elevation of serum anti-citrullinated peptide antibody (antiCCP; 586 U/mL) and a positive result for serum RF (158×), in addition to pericardial RF (128×), were noted in tests for the differential diagnosis. However, the interpretation of these biomarkers remained a clinical puzzle during this period due to a crucial lack of articular symptoms, the major manifestation of RA. After surgery for the creation of a forearm arteriovenous fistula (AVF), the patient was moved to the Division of Nephrology in mid-August for expert management of maintenance HD. In the perioperative period, 1 g of cefazolin was injected for two days to prevent surgical infection. A recovery of the urine volume was followed by an improvement in the renal biomarkers (e.g. serum Cr 4.06 mg/dL) . However, the patient's high-grade fever flared, indicating the possibility of subsequent infections, including those associated with the dialysis catheter. The catheter was removed with resumption of vancomycin infusion, also in consideration of the maturity of the previously created AVF, however, the fever with elevated inflammatory biomarkers did not completely resolve . As such, discontinuation of dialysis therapy was thought to be difficult because HD had been started on the presumption of uremic pericarditis, according to the lack of an alternative etiological explanation. Of particular note, digital pain emerged shortly thereafter . Moreover, burning arthralgia extended to the right wrist, left hip joint, and bilateral first toes. A diagnosis of RA was finally made with reference to the 2010American College of Rheumatology (ACR)/European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) criteria (6) (total score estimated to be 7). Circulating markers associated with vasculitis and other connective-tissue diseases that potentially cause pericarditis (2), including anti-Sm antibody, antiSS-A/Ro antibody, anti-SS-B/La, ANCAs, anti-double stranded DNA antibody, and immune complex, were negative. Shortly after the initiation of steroid therapy with a low dose of prednisolone (PSL; 10 mg/day), the patient's articular symptoms and fever disappeared, as reflected in a marked decrease of serum CRP (0.18 mg/dL). The altered clinical presentation also evoked a possible association of RA with the pericardial lesion, and therefore HD therapy was stopped. The patient was discharged in early September and has been free from recurrence of pericarditis without HD reentry. The laboratory tests in December 2014 showed serum Cr 3.11 mg/dL and CRP 0.32 mg/dL, with the patient still receiving PSL at a dose of 10 mg/day.
