A 71-year-old Caucasian woman presented to the emergency department with acute exacerbation of a 2-year history of recurrent dyspnoea and a new onset manifestation of hypertensive crisis. She did not complain of angina. Her past medical history included essential hypertension, dyslipidaemia, diabetes mellitus type 2 and obesity. Her past surgical history was significant for strumectomy in 1991 and tonsillectomy in early childhood. On physical examination, Kussmaul's sign was detectable on inspiration, suggestive of an increased jugular venous pressure. Laboratory analysis and tumour biomarkers were within normal ranges except for an elevated D-dimer. Chest x-rays revealed no signs of cardiomegaly or pulmonary oedema. The electrocardiography showed a sinus rhythm with premature atrial complexes and T wave abnormalities from lead V 4 to lead V 6. Transoesophageal echocardiography revealed a large 5.5cm mass located in the right atrium extending along the free right atrial wall, severely impairing blood flow from the superior vena cava into and through the right atrium. Both the left and right atria were moderately enlarged. The left ventricle showed moderate concentric hypertrophy with a preserved ejection fraction. There was a grade I/IV tricuspid insufficiency with a maximal pulmonary arterial pressure of 43mmHg. With the elevated D-dimer in mind, spiral computed tomography (CT) was initiated to exclude pulmonary embolism. The diagnosis of a 5.5cm right atrial mass was confirmed, suspicious of cardiac myxoma ( . The percutaneous coronary angiography showed a right dominant system and a non-significant stenosis in the proximal right coronary artery (<30%). The left main stem, left coronary artery and circumflex artery appeared unremarkable. Additionally performed duplex ultrasonography of the large neck vessels revealed bilateral stenotic disease of the carotid arteries (50%). Upon evaluation for elective cardiac intervention, the patient underwent open heart surgery. After a median sternotomy, the ascending aorta and both the superior and inferior vena cava were used as cannulation sites. The aorta wascross-clamped and cardiopulmonary bypass was initiated. Antegrade cardioplegia and mild hypothermia (32°C) were used during bypass. The tumour was palpated (
and the right atrium incised. A large, well circumscribed mass was visible, stretching down from the superior vena cava comprising the entire free right atrial wall all the way to the orifice of the inferior vena cava. Macroscopically, the mass appeared to be of lipomatous composition (
. Frozen section diagnosis confirmed a true atrial lipoma. In order to allow for comprehensive excision of the mass, the caval veins were partially detached from their atrial origins (
, and both free atrial wall and tumour were removed en bloc (
. A patent foramen ovale became apparent and was closed subsequently. The caval veins were reconstructed using 5/0 polypropylene sutures and bovine pericardium. The atrium was newly formed with a bovine pericardial patch and the patient weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass. The postoperative period was significant for pacemaker dependency, requiring the implantation of a permanent dual chamber pacemaker. The patient was discharged from hospital in good condition.
