A 37-year-old white man came under our observation 8 years ago (2007) because of pain and increasing intraocular pressure despite maximal drug therapy in diagnosis of neovascular glaucoma in his right eye (RE). His medical history included blindness since childhood, polar posterior cataract and strabismus surgery in his RE at the age of 5 years. He has always had general good health, his left eye visual acuity was 20/20 and no ocular abnormality was observed. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of his orbit and Ascan ultrasonography showed bulbar subatrophy, vitreous haemorrhage, and choroidal calcifications . He had systemic multidrug-resistant hypertension and a fever resistant to multiantibiotic therapy for 3 months before presentation. After 1 month he underwent enucleation to relieve the pain and a hydroxyapatite prosthesis, 18 mm in size, was implanted. A histopathological examination disclosed an undifferentiated carcinoma arising from the ciliary body. An immunohistochemical study was positive for cytokeratin pool and negative for S-100, HMB45, Melan-a, CD34, CD45, CD3, and CD20 . A total body computed tomography (CT) scan, head and neck MRI were performed and no signs of metastatic disease were detected. A longitudinal follow-up was carried out revealing no remarkable signs. Since June 2008 (1 year after the enucleation procedure) he again had severe head and neck pain, fever and systemic hypertension. A new CT scan and MRI demonstrated a mass involving his entire orbital cavity displacing the prosthesis, which reached his optic foramen and medially eroded the bone wall of his orbit and ethmoid . He underwent a debulking procedure followed by three chemotherapy cycles (cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil). After the surgery his blood pressure improved significantly and remained controlled with single therapy and without fever. In September 2008 a new head and neck CT scan and MRI showed a relapse. We decided to perform a resection of the tumor involving front and middle skull base and his fronto-orbito-ethmoidal area. The following year a CT total body scan showed bone, lung, adrenal, and retroperitoneal metastases and he died 5 years ago, despite radiotherapy and six chemotherapy cycles: Taxotere (docetaxel), cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil.
