A 35-year-old African man presented with an 8-year history of left upper limb pain. The pain was so severe that he was unable to sleep at night. He complained of almost incessant pain and paresthesia from the left side of his neck, and along his entire left upper limb. Touching him anywhere on his limb and neck would elicit a burning pain that radiated along his entire upper extremity.
There was no antecedent history of trauma, and he did not have any features of neurofibromatosis type 1. On further probing, he reported that the pain had initially started from the tip of his left middle fingertip. Over time, the pain had grown worse, and extended to involve the entire limb. The pain was aggravated by cold weather, lifting of heavy weights with his left hand and direct pressure or trauma to his left middle finger. It was relieved by rubber band tourniquet (self-applied) and by rubbing either side of his finger on a rough cloth or other rough surface. During the 8-year period, he was managed for multiple different diagnoses including neurogenic pain, neuroma, gout and thoracic outlet syndrome. He underwent multiple diagnostic tests including computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) imaging of his spine and brachial plexus. He had a total of 12 stellate ganglion blocks administered over the 8 years without a resolution of symptoms. On examination, he had neck tenderness along the brachial plexus roots, and along his entire left upper limb. His left middle finger was visibly thickened and dry, with exquisite tenderness over the entire pulp, precluding further examination. A diagnosis of chronic regional pain syndrome (CRPS), most likely secondary to a glomus tumor, was made. Previous MRI images were inconclusive, and we did not see the need to get new ones. We proposed an exploration of his left middle fingertip, and informed him that the finding and excision of a glomus tumor would be curative. He consented to surgery, which was performed under a regional block and tourniquet, under loupe magnification. A 10×6 mm tumor was found adjacent to bone and excised . His postoperative recovery was uneventful; he reported uninterrupted sleep for the first time in 8 years. So happy was he with his outcome, and so concerned for others that might be in pain like he had been, that he approached a local newspaper where he narrated his experiences . The histopathology was reported as a glomus tumor (Figs. 2, 3, 4 and 5).
