A previously healthy 28-year-old woman presented to her general practitioner (GP) with a two-week history of nonproductive cough. Examination of her respiratory and cardiovascular systems showed no abnormalities. As her cough did not resolve, she returned to her GP a month later, this time complaining also of bilateral leg swelling. To investigate a possible renal aetiology, a urine dipstick test was carried out and the resulting score of 3+ suggested only proteinuria. The patient, however, did not describe any urinary symptoms such as haematuria. The finding of proteinuria, together with leg swelling, prompted referral to a nephrologist. Formal urinalysis confirmed the occurrence of proteinuria (protein concentration 500 mg/dL). Chest radiography showed congested lung fields with a cardiothoracic ratio of 1:2. Physical examination revealed a thin patient who was not jaundiced or cyanosed. Her heart pulse was regular at 100 bpm, blood pressure was 90/60 mmHg and jugular venous pressure was elevated. A soft mid-diastolic murmur with a loud second heart sound was heard. Her lungs had bibasilar crackles with mildly decreased air entry in the right base. There was a mild degree of ascites and the liver edge was palpable. Upon further questioning, the patient described a two-week history of effort dyspnoea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea and orthopnoea prior to the nephrologist's assessment. She had no past medical or drug history, was a nonsmoker and did not consume alcohol. To rule out a myocarditis-like cause prior to a renal biopsy, cardiology review and echocardiography were performed. Blood test results revealed mildly elevated platelet count, normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and hypoalbuminaemia . Her renal function was also normal. Electrocardiography (ECG) showed sinus rhythm and P mitrale, while two-dimensional echocardiography revealed a large left atrial myxoma prolapsing through the mitral valve and into the left ventricle ( . There was mild pericardial effusion, and the chambers on the right side of the heart were enlarged with severe tricuspid regurgitation. Pulmonary artery pressure was 65 mmHg and the ejection fraction was 50%. Given the unexpected findings, the patient was referred to a cardiothoracic surgeon, and removal of the atrial myxomaABSTRACT Myxomas are uncommon primary cardiac tumours that usually affect the left atrium. We herein report the case of a patient who presented with right heart failure and proteinuria, leading to the diagnosis of atrial myxoma. Surgical resection resulted in resolution of the patient's symptoms.vascular stroma, with no atypia or mitosis seen, in keeping with a benign atrial myxoma. The tricuspid valve was structurally normal. At six weeks post operation, the patient was categorised as Class I, according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification. (4) Repeat ECG showed no residual myxoma, mild tricuspid regurgitation, a pulmonary artery pressure of 45 mmHg, and good left ventricular function . Repeat urinalysis revealed a protein concentration of 9 mg/dL, which confirmed the resolution of proteinuria in the patient.
