Both patients, age 31 and 80 years, were female and biparous. The younger woman was referred from a local hospital 3 weeks after she underwent a left subcostal laparotomy and exploration for undefined left-upper abdominal mass diagnosed by computed tomography (CT) and presumed to be the cause of her chronic non-specific abdominal complaints. She was apparently healthy, without risk factors for a vascular disease and denied any previous abdominal trauma. Conventional catheter arteriography established the diagnosis of a 5.4 cm, non-ruptured, saccular aneurysm of the distal splenic artery . Elective aneurysm resection with concomitant splenectomy was performed using the upper median laparotomy and direct approach through the bursa omentalis . Histopathological examination of the resected aneurysm wall revealed signs of chronic dissection and of cystic medial necrosis . After an uneventful recovery, patient was discharged on postoperative day 6. Forty two months later, she was in good health, without signs of postoperative complications or newly developed vascular lesions. The other patient, frail elderly woman with a long-standing history of poorly controlled essential hypertension was admitted urgently a few hours after experiencing sudden severe upper abdominal pain followed by syncope. Urgent CT aortography revealed a 9.2 cm saccular SAA with contained rupture . Immediate aneurysmectomy with splenectomy was performed using the same surgical approach as employed in Case 1. Operative findings confirmed the presence of a giant, heavily calcified SAA embedded in the pan-www.srp-arh.rs . Preoperative contrast angiogram (right femoral approach with selective catheterization of the coeliac trunk) demonstrates large saccular aneurysm of the distal portion of the splenic artery (maximal transverse diameter of 5.4 cm), encroaching upon the splenic hilum. Nonhomogeneous opacification of the aneurysmal sac suggests the presence of an intraluminal thrombus.
. Intraoperative photograph: using the approach through the lesser peritoneal sac, proximal splenic artery was identified, isolated and clamped; large aneurysm of the distal splenic artery was opened, found to be partially thrombosed (arrow) and then partially resected (posterior wall, intimately adherent to the pancreas, left intact); splenectomy was also performed.). b) Case 2: complicated atherosclerotic lesions, with plaque ulceration, intraplaque hemorrhage and heavy calcification (Vb, VIa, VIb, VIc intimal lesions, according to the American Heart Association advanced atherosclerosis classification system; HE, ×100).ing giant SAA with incipient rupture (discontinuous ring of calcifications at the posterolateral aneurysmal wall with locally contained blood extravasation, arrow). creatic tissue, with evidence of intramural hematoma and perianeurysmal blood leakage . Aneurysm size and rupture distorted and obscured local anatomy, precluding selective control of the proximal splenic artery and necessitating supraceliac aortic clamping before opening of the aneurysmal sac. Although accidental pancreatic tail injury was evident intraoperatively, it was judged to be insignificant and not to require formal distal pancreatectomy. Instead, local measures were undertaken, including fibrin glue application and omentopexy, to prevent further pancreatic complications. Despite such precautions, quality and duration of postoperative abdominal drainage (drain placed in the splenic bed), as well as elevated serum amylase and lipase levels, indicated development of a low-volume, external pancreatic fistula. Postoperative imaging findings (abdominal ultrasound, abdominal CT, and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography , performed on postoperative day 5, 14 and 20, respectively) demonstrated progressively larger pancreatic pseudocyst, which eventually completely filled the bursa omentalis . Due to its wide communication with the main pancreatic duct, demonstrated by MRCP, it was not suitable for minimally invasive, interventional treatment (endoscopic or percutaneous drainage). After the period of pseudocyst " maturation " , on the postoperative day 35 the patient was reoperated and internal drainage with Roux-en-Y cystojejunostomy was performed . Postoperatively, protracted abdominal drainage, which seized on conservative treatment, and superficial wound infection required prolonged hospital treatment, but was eventually successful. The pathological examination of the aneurysm was consistent with an atherosclerotic etiology . At the 6-month follow-up the patient was aliveMRCP (b) images of a large pancreatic pseudocyst (upper-left and upper-right, respectively). Intraoperative aspect of the pseudocyst completely filling the lesser sac (arrow) (c), and final view upon completion of the Roux-en-Y cystojejunostomy reconstruction (d). and asymptomatic. Both patients also received antipneumococcal vaccine and long-term antiplatelet prophylaxis was introduced (100 mg aspirin daily, indefinitely) to counteract postsplenectomy thrombocytosis.
