A 63-year-old man was investigated for positive fecal occult blood in February 2010. Gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a Type 3 gastric cancer located in the lesser curvature side and in middle and upper parts of the stomach. The oral side of the tumor was at 1cm anal side of esophagogastric junction . The pathological diagnosis for biopsy specimens obtained by endoscopy was poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the stomach. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed a perigastric lymph node (30 mm × 23 mm) and a PVTT (16 mm × 13 mm). Endoscopic ultrasound was not performed because the PVTT was enhanced in the CT . A PVTT is extremely rare in gastric cancer and has been reported to be associated with AFP-GC. Therefore, the serum α-Fetoprotein (AFP) level was measured and found to be very elevated (6,160 ng/mL). The patient had no liver diseases, including hepatitis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Gastric cancer with distant metastases, including a portal thrombus, has a very poor prognosis and is usually inoperable. This case was treated with combined chemotherapy of S-1 plus cisplatin, a standard regimen for unresectable gastric cancer in Japan . After 3 courses of the regimen, composed of S1 (120 mg/day, orally, days 1-21) and cisplatin (60 mg/m 2 , intravenously, day 8) following by 14 days' rest, the primary lesion was flattened , the perigastric lymph node shrank to 13 mm × 10 mm, and the PVTT disappeared, allowing curative surgery to be performed . The serum AFP level decreased to 60.7 ng/mL. Total gastrectomy and D2 lymphadenectomy was performed with the resection of distal esophagus to assure tumor-free margin. The macroscopic findings of the resected specimen included a slightly elevated tumor spreading from the cardia to the gastric body, with dimensions of 52 mm × 48 mm. The pathological diagnosis was poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with invasion to the mucosa and one perigastric lymph node metastasis. No hepatoid cells were found in the resected specimens. The pathological staging of the current case was Stage IB, and the histological evaluation according to the criteria of tumor response of the Japanese Classification of Gastric Carcinoma, 3 rd English edition , after preoperative therapy was Grade 2 (viable tumor cells remained in less than 1/3 of the neoplastic area) . Immunohistochemical staining showed AFP-GC . S-1 was given for 12 months by the standard regimen of S-1monotherapy (120 mg/day, orally, days 1-28, followed by 14 days' rest). However, the amount was reduced to 80 mg/day after the second course due to Grade 3 diarrhea. The patient has been alive without recurrence for 48 months. The serum AFP level became 2.4 ng/mL after the operation and has continued within the normal limit .
