A 65-year-old Chinese female, without any positive medical and family history, presented with recurrent chest discomfort on exertion for more than 10 years. Physical examination and laboratory tests were unremarkable. On admission, the water bottle sign of the cardiac silhouette was found on the chest roentgenogram . Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) revealed a large (10.2 × 7.5 × 3.8 cm) well-defined homogenous hypoechoic mass located in the pericardial cavity, encompassing the anterior walls of aorta and pulmonary artery. Further assessment by enhanced computed tomography (CT) showed a large lobulated low-density mass in the pericardial cavity . The tumor presented with septal enhancement and absence of parenchymal enhancement. Meanwhile, computed tomographic angiography (CTA) of the heart confirmed normal coronary arteries and no compression signs by the tumor. After extensive workup, a preoperative diagnosis of cardiac liposarcoma was made based on the extensive growth and the enhancement of the tumor septa, which made us believe complete tumor resection was of high difficulty. Debulking surgery was scheduled to release patient's symptoms. Intraoperatively, a giant lipoid tumor originating from RA was noted after pericardiotomy . The tumor was based predominantly on the entire free wall of the RA, stretching down from the RA appendage all the way to the orifice of the inferior vena cava . The RA was extremely deformed owing to the significant local mass effect. Due to well capsulation and no signs of local invasion, the tumor was considered a lipoma and therefore resectable. Complete tumor resection was achieved during beating heart surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass assistance. Excision required removal of most of the RA free wall. Direct suture for RA defect seemed to be impossible because of the large defect size and the high tension of suture. In addition, the deformation of RA could results in an unsatisfactory long-term outcome such as systemic congestion. The RA wall that remained was ultimately repaired with a 7 × 5 cm autologous pericardial patch. After declamping the superior and inferior vena cava, the RA pressure was back to normal according to right heart catheterization. Postoperative transesophageal echocardiography also confirmed normal right heart function. The resected lipoma was about 14 × 11 cm and 450 g . The histopathological examination made the final diagnosis of cardiac lipoma . The patient had an uneventful recovery and without any recurrence at 1-year follow-up.
