Given the nonurgent nature of this WM patient's presentation, rituximab was started for progressive symptomatic IgM-related neuropathy. The patient did encounter an IgM flare and worsening neuropathic symptoms. He underwent plasmapheresis and was transitioned to CDR, and achieved a partial response with near resolution of his neuropathic symptoms. He completed 2 years of maintenance rituximab therapy and remains in a partial response, without peripheral neuropathy, 5 years later. Under similar circumstances today, ibrutinib (if available) could be considered as an appropriate initial or second-line intervention. This 42-year-old WM patient presented with symptomatic hyperviscosity. The patient also had bulky adenopathy and splenomegaly at the time of presentation. He underwent emergent plasmapheresis, and then received blood transfusions to not aggravate whole blood viscosity levels. Given his young age and need for rapid paraprotein reduction, bortezomib and dexamethasone (without rituximab to avoid an IgM flare) was started. Serum IgM levels were closely monitored after pheresis, and he received additional plasma exchanges when serum IgM exceeded 5000 mg/dL. After 3 cycles of bortezomib and dexamethasone, no response occurred, and he was started on bendamustine. The serum IgM level decreased to 3400 mg/dL after 2 cycles of bendamustine, and no further plasmapheresis was required. Rituximab was then added to bendamustine for 4 additional cycles, with continued close monitoring of serum IgM levels. Maintenance rituximab therapy followed for 2 additional years, and he achieved a very good partial response with complete resolution of all extramedullary disease. Two years after treatment, he remains without progression, although he has required IVIG replacement for recurring sino-bronchial infections associated with treatment-related serum IgA and IgG depletion. Under similar circumstances today, ibrutinib (if available) would represent a very reasonable option to use either as initial or subsequent therapy. The IgG-and IgA-sparing effects associated with ibrutinib may have also prevented the need for IVIG replacement in this patient.
This case illustrates a young WM patient refractory to multiple agents. Nucleoside analogs, alemtuzumab, and ASCT were considered, although the patient declined these options because of toxicity concerns. A BM biopsy confirmed persistent WM disease with a MYD88 L265P CXCR4 WT genotype. He received ibrutinib on a clinical trial and attained a partial response. After therapy, his hematocrit normalized and he remains in a partial response 2.5 years later.83. Uljon SN, Treon SP, Tripsas CK, Lindeman NI. Challenges with serum protein electrophoresis in assessing progression and clinical response inBlood (print ISSN 0006-4971, online ISSN 1528-0020), is published weekly by the American Society
