We present the case of a 68-year-old male patient, Caucasian, living in an urban environment, who was admitted in emergency for epigastric pain. His personal history included duodenal ulcer 20 years ago, coronary heart disease, heart failure diagnosed 6 years ago, with PTCA and stent implantation in the anterior interventricular branch of the left coronary artery 5 years ago, exertional angina pectoris, dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertension risk grade III, hypertensive cardiomyopathy, type 2 diabetes (controlled by oral therapy). The epigastric pain had set on suddenly 2 weeks before, after an intense physical effort (and with inadequate hydration) and radiated to the back. The pain had variable intensity during its evolution, initially described as being of great intensity, later as having an average intensity and was accompanied by anorexia and asthenia. The patient reported associated progressive exertional dyspnea and chest pain with angina characteristics when making intensive efforts. The patient denied any history of gallstone disease and any high-fat, high-calorie intake or alcohol consumption. He was on a therapeutic regimen containing angiotensinconverting enzyme inhibitor (Prestarium 5 mg once daily), beta blocker (Carvedilol 6,25 mg twice daily), antiplatelet (Aspirin 75 mg once daily), nitrate (Isosorbide mononitrate 40 mg once daily), statin (Rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily) and biguanide (Metformin 800 mg once daily); was compliant to this therapy. As a risk factor he was an exsmoker, but did not present any familial risk factor. Clinical findings on hospital admission: apyrexia; asthenia; no pulmonary findings; rhythmic heart sounds, heart rate = 56 beats/min, blood pressure = 140/85 mmHg; no peripheral swelling; abdomen with tenderness in the epigastric area and palpable pulsatile mass above the umbilicus, no defense or muscle stiffness, Murphy and Blumberg signs were negative; normal bowel movements; the diuresis was normal. The blood tests showed: ESR = 20 mm/h, normal blood count, increased serum (158 UI/l, 1.5 × normal) and urinary amylase (1053 UI/l, 2 × normal), serum glucose = 119 mg/dl, hepatic and renal functions unaltered, normal triglycerides and cholesterol. The chest x-ray showed no pathological changes. The abdominal ultrasound followed by abdominal contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) revealed a 40 mm pancreatic pseudocyst with sediment  and the dilation of an abdominal aortic aneurysm (diameter > 55 mm), , liver steatosis, no gallstones, spleen and kidneys with normal ultrasound appearance. The CT examination with contrast substance (Ioperamidum) described the spindle-shaped aneurysm of the abdominal aorta dilation beginning from the renal level, extending to 169 mm, until the iliac bifurcation and continuing on both iliac arteries, 40 mm left and 20 mm right respectively. The maximum diameter of the aortic aneurysm was 60.5 mm, with calcified circumferential atheromatosis, diffuse on its whole length; a parietal circumferential thrombosis with a maximum thickness of 27 mm and a minimum of 7 mm was also present; the diameter of the circulated lumen was 19 mm in the distal portion of the aorta, and 29/32 mm respectively below the kidneys. At the level of the renal arteries the aorta had an antero-posterior caliber of 36 mm and a latero-lateral diameter of 42 mm, with thrombosis of 5 mm postero-laterally. No signs of dissection or rupture of the aneurysm were evidenced. Calcified atheromas were described at the level of the splenic artery, and also at the level of the superior mesenteric artery ostium and bilateral renal arteries . On suprarenal and throracic sections, the aorta had a normal caliber. The CT examination with contrast substance highlighted a round-oval lesion of 39/24 mm, with a slightly heterogeneous structure, partially with fluid content, at the level of the pancreas tail. In the omental bursa and near the tail of the pancreas there was fluid collection andfatty infiltration. Otherwise, the pancreas had a normal aspect, and the duct of Wirsung was not dilated. The remaining abdominal organs were normal on the CT scan. . Based on the clinical and anamnestic data (patient denied alcohol consumption or a high fat intake; gallstones were absent; pain appeared after an intensive physical effort), together with the laboratory and imaging data, the case was interpreted as moderately severe ischemic acute pancreatitis , pancreatic pseudocyst, partially thrombosed aneurysm of the abdominal aorta, general atheromatosis. Taking into account the presence of ischemic acute pancreatitis and partially thrombosed aortic aneurysm, a superior gastrointestinal endoscopy was recommended in order to exclude ischemic gastropathy but the patient refused to undergo this procedure. The cardiovascular surgery examination and the general surgery consultation recommended the abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery to be postponed for 2–3 months, waiting for spontaneous resolution of the pancreatic pseudocyst. The patient followed a standard therapy including dietary restrictions, hydroelectrolytic rebalancing, proton pump inhibitors, antispasmodics, antibiotics, pancreatic enzymes together with the cardiologic treatment (angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor, beta blockers, antiplatelet therapy, nitrates, statin) and oral antidiabetic drugs. The evolution was favorable with slow normalization of pancreatic enzymes. After 2 months, the patient returned for follow-up examination. His clinical condition was improved, he did not present abdominal tenderness. Biological findings: ESR = 20 mm/h; normal pancreatic enzymes. The repeated abdominal contrast CT scan showed no significant changes in size for the pancreatic pseudocyst and the abdominal aortic aneurysm . This time gastroscopy was performed, showing no pathological changes. A cardiovascular surgery consultation was performed again, and the patient was scheduled for aortobifemoral endoluminal prosthesis. Meanwhile the follow–up showed that the pancreatic pseudocyst had resorbed in eight months. . Surgery was delayed due to an intercurrent respiratory infection of the patient (bronchitis). Surgery for the abdominal aneurysm was performed after the resorption of the pseudocyst. The cure of the aortic aneurysm was performed by bypass grafting with dacron aorto-bifemoral prosthesis. After surgery, a complication appeared, namely a periprosthetic retroperitoneal abscess. Another surgical intervention was therefore necessary, but severe septic shock occurred, leading to the patient's death.
