The patient was a 69-year-old man with a medical history of repeated urinary tract infections due to the use of a urinary catheter following a transurethral resection of the prostate. The SVA was discovered during a clinical checkup for aortic regurgitation because of suspected infective endocarditis. In addition, this patient had situs inversus totalis known since childhood. The transthoracic echocardiogram  showed a right SVA of 34 mm prolapsing into the right ventricle, an ascending aorta measuring 43 mm and grade-2 central aortic regurgitation through a tricuspid valve. The left ventricular ejection fraction was preserved. Coronary CT angiography  and Magnetic Resonance Imaging  showed an aortic root measuring an estimated 50 mm. The ostium of the right coronary artery was located in the anterior left sinus of Valsalva, and the ostium of the left coronary artery was located in the anterior right sinus of Valsalva. Surgery was indicated because of the association of SVA, moderate dilation of aortic root and ascending aorta, and moderate aortic regurgitation, in a context of chronic urinary infectious disease without proof of aortic valve endocarditis. The procedure was performed through a median sternotomy. Cardiopulmonary bypass was established with intermittent antegrade warm blood myocardial protection. Peri-operatively, the heart showed complete inversion. The aortic valve was tricuspid, with partial melting at the right and left commissures. The right SVA, which had a pellucid wall, extended into the interventricular septum. It was located right above the insertion of the aortic annulus of the anterior right coronary cusp; the entire aortic valve was dissected and skeletonized with dissection up to the subvalvular plane. Remodeling of the aortic root with external aortic annuloplasty was performed according to the technique described by Lansac . The distinctive feature in this patient was the inverted appearance of cusps and the absence of aortic tissue in the area of the aneurysm cusp. The Valsalva prosthesis (Gelweave Valsalva, Visintek, UK, 26 mm diameter) was cut to form three scallops. A running suture was performing for each sinus and extending from the nadir up to the commissure. The annuloplasty was done using an Extra Aortic ring (CORONEO®, Montreal, Canada) of 25 mm anchored to the subvalvular plane by five threads. After reimplantation of the coronary arteries, the distal anastomosis was made on the distal ascending aorta. The aortic clamping time was 118 min and the duration of the extracorporeal circulation was 128 min. The postoperative period was uneventful with no complications. The patient was extubated at 4 H. He was out of the intensive care unit on day 1 and home on day 7. The postoperative echocardiography (day 6 and 1 year) showed no residual aortic regurgitation. After one year, the patient was fine, apart from repeated urinary tract infections due to the use of a urinary catheter. The MRI performed after eleven months showed a good result of the surgical repair.
