An 87-year-old man presented to our hospital complaining of motor aphasia, dysarthria, and right hemiparesis. He had a history of hypertension and chronic kidney disease and was taking 10 mg enalapril, 40 mg olmesartan, and 16 mg azelnidipine daily. He had no history of angioedema (Quincke's edema), either prior to or since commencing enalapril. His initial score on the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) was 16. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed an ischemic lesion in the left frontal lobe including the insular cortex , and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) showed severe stenosis of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA; ). Ultrasound also demonstrated stenosis of the bilateral internal carotid arteries (ICAs). Area stenosis of the left and right ICAs was 79% and 82%, respectively. The North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) method indicated 64% stenosis in the left ICA, whereas the right ICA could not be evaluated because its stenosis extended beyond the distal end of the observed area. Alteplase infusion was started 140 minutes after the onset of symptoms. Although the patient's hemiparesis significantly ameliorated during the treatment and his NIHSS score decreased to 8, by the end of alteplase infusion, he had developed swelling on the right side of his tongue with a hemorrhage on its surface . Although there was no evidence of airway compromise or a skin rash, his heart rate suddenly started to decrease from 72 beats/minute to less than 50 beats/minute at 2 hours from the end of the rt-PA treatment, followed by the fall of his blood pressure from 140/60 mmHg to 54/26 mmHg. Neither electrocardiography nor ultrasound cardiography detected any abnormality in thecardiac function. Within 15 minutes, his heart rate and blood pressure spontaneously recovered to 80 beats/minute and 120/44 mmHg, respectively; however, his symptoms deteriorated and he developed total aphasia and complete right hemiplegia. The NIHSS score increased to 23. Brain MRI revealed expansion of the ischemic lesion to include the entire territory of the left MCA and left MCA occlusion was identified using MRA ( , b). It also showed the asymmetrically swollen tongue without parenchymal hematoma, confirming right-sided orolingual angioedema ( , d). Hydrocortisone was commenced and the edema disappeared within 2 days.
