In April 2008, a healthy Caucasian 23-year-old man went to the emergency room for the sudden onset of dyspnea on exertion, fatigue, chest discomfort, fever, and night sweats. Upon physical examination, his vital signs were stable, with only mild tachycardia (heart rate 96/min). There were no palpable lymph nodes. Jugular venous pressure, carotid upstroke, and heart sounds were not clinically relevant. There were no appreciable murmurs. Respiratory and abdominal objective examinations were normal. A transthoracic echocardiogram revealed the presence of a profuse pericardial effusion; therefore an evacuative pericardiocentesis was performed, draining approximately 900 mL of serum blood material. A subsequent chest CT scan showed a solid and expansive mass, about 8.4 cm in diameter with a partial endocavitary development in the right atrium, associated with multiple mediastinal adenopathies and three noncalcified pulmonary micronodules. An NMR scan confirmed the previous CT findings , and a subsequent CT-Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan showed high glucose uptake in the mass (max standardized uptake value— SUV = 6.5). The histological examination performed by multiple biopsies of the lesion revealed a malignant mesenchymal neoplasm compatible with angiosarcoma. Surgical treatment with radical intent was initially excluded, given the size of the mass, its location close to the coronary ostium and the suspicion of extracardiac involvement. Therefore, a combined radiochemotherapeutic neoadjuvant treatment was planned. In order to preserve myocardial function as much as possible to allow for a subsequent surgical resection, doxorubicin was avoided, and first-line treatment with docetaxel was chosen. From June 2008 to September 2008, the patient was treated with four cycles of weekly docetaxel (35 mg/ mq) with excellent tolerance. The subsequent NMR revaluation showed the disappearance of pulmonary nodules and a reduction of the atrial mass by about 1 cm. Subsequently, percutaneous conformal radiotherapy at a total dose of 5,400 centigray (cGy), with a daily fractionation of 180 cGy was performed, followed by 13 additional infusions of weekly docetaxel at the previous dose. Although the radiological revaluation confirmed a further reduction in size of the cardiac mass and a reduction in size of mediastinic adenopathies, the surgical resection was still excluded. Therefore the patient continued chemotherapy, receiving a total of 24 cycles of weekly docetaxel, until May 2009. Since a further reduction of 1.2 cm in size of the atrial mass was found by NMR  and CT-PET scan, the surgical treatment was performed in July 2009. After surgery, the patient was treated again with weekly docetaxel for a total of 10 cycles in the adjuvant setting with overall good tolerance. A follow-up radiological revaluation (NMR, PET) did not show any signs of recurrence. A close follow-up was set during which several evacuative thoracenteses were performed because of a recurrent bilateral neoplastic pleural effusion until the patient died in April 2010 of respiratory failure about 2 years after diagnosis. The last radiological assessment showed progressive disease with pleural and liver metastasis.
