A 75-year-old man was referred because of chronic back pain with increased alkaline phosphatase. The pain was localized in the vertebral column and radiated to the chest.THP Tamm-Horsfall glycoproteins, PTC proximal tubular cells, Glom glomerulus, RANKL receptor activator of the nuclear factor kappa B, DKK1 dickkopf1, Ocl osteoclast, Obl osteoblast, MIP1α macrophage inflammatory protein-1α, HGF hepatic growth factor, sFRP soluble frizzled receptor-like proteins, AKI acute kidney injury, MGSS monoclonal gammopathy of skeletal significance electrophoresis. CT of the thoracic wall and lumbar spine showed partially healed fractures of rib 7, 8, 9, and 10 and an old fracture of the processus transversus L3. MRI of the pelvis showed aspecific bone remodeling and bone edema in the right sacrum. The tentative diagnosis of Paget's disease was made and zoledronate 5 mg IV with calcium and vitamin D supplements was given. Because of increasing diffuse pains and difficulties of movement, the patient was referred for a second opinion. He had extreme muscle weakness in shoulders and hips, and could barely stand up from chair and undress. Laboratory revealed increased alkaline phosphatase of 171 U/L (46 % bone fraction), low phosphate (0.40) and eGFR (47), and normal calcium, PTH, 25(OH)2D3, prostate specific antigen, protein electrophoresis, and TSH. Bone scintigraphy showed multiple uptake zones in ribs, vertebrae (D6, 7, 8, and 10), right femoral neck, left acetabulum, left patella, right proximal tibial plateau, proximal left fibula, right distal tibia, and left calcaneus. Radiographs showed multiple stress fractures at these sites, but no osteolytic zones. MRI of the spine indicated vertebral fractures (D7, 8, and 10) without osteolytic zones. Bone mineral density was low, with a T-score of −3.6 in the spine and −2.5 in the total hip. The diagnosis of adult-onset hypophosphatemic osteomalacia was made. Further examinations indicated decreased tubular reabsorption of phosphate (49 %), a positron emission tomography (PET) revealed no tumors or active granulomatous disease, and normal serum value of FGF-23, excluding tumor-induced osteomalacia syndrome (TIO) as a cause. Treatment with phosphate, calcitriol, and calcium supplements resulted in spectacular clinical amelioration of muscle weakness, normalization of serum phosphate and alkaline phosphatase, radiographic healing of the stress fractures within 6 months, and an increase in BMD of 30 % in the spine and of 9 % in the total hip after 18 months (T-score of −1.5 and −2.0, respectively). Because of the deteriorating renal function (eGFR=30) and no TIO was found, urine analysis was performed showing proteinuria and glucosuria, and the patient was referred to a nephrologist. A mixed proteinuria (3 g/d) with excretion of type kappa monoclonal light chains was found, together with hypouricemia (1.23 mg/dl), renal glycosuria (696 mg/dl), and proximal tubular acidosis (urine pH 7 and serum bicarbonate 18.3 meq/l), indicating damage of the proximal tubular cells, compatible with Fanconi syndrome. An excess of kappa light chains was also detected in blood with at a concentration of 401 mg/l. A renal biopsy showed normal glomeruli and intratubular eosinophilic casts and damaged tubular epithelial cells, suggestive for myeloma cast nephropathy. The diagnosis of MM was confirmed by the oncologist on a bone marrow biopsy and treatment with 8 cycles of bortezomib and dexamethasone was started. Treatment with phosphate, calcium, and vitamin D supplements was also continued. Five months after starting chemotherapy, with three cycles of bortezomib and dexamethasone, the renal function was stabilized (eGFR= 43). A control bone biopsy with immunophenotyping showed disappearance of monoclonal plasma cells in the bone marrow. However, kappa light chains were still present in serum (102 mg/l) and urine (150 mg/l), with persistent proteinuria with tubular proteins and TRP was still low (0.61). Although the patient is now clinically fully recovered without pain and without complaints of muscle weakness, he still has to take calcitriol and phosphate supplements, and is further in follow up by the oncologist.
