A 21-year-old male patient, diagnosed with UC at the age of 13, receiving long-term mesalazine therapy (at a dose of 3 × 1,000 mg), was admitted to the clinic in October 2008. Th e major symptoms described by the patient included general weakness persisting for approximately 8 months, subfebrile body temperature, muscle and joint pain, weight loss of ca. 12 kg, and presence of fresh blood in the faeces. Because of these symptoms the patient was diagnosed and treated twice for UC at a gastroenterological ward. Previous examinations had shown an increase of the ESR, high levels of acute phase proteins, signifi cant anaemia and thrombocytosis. It was assumed that the underlying cause of sideropenic anaemia was chronic gastrointestinal bleeding and an iron absorption disorder. Colonoscopy revealed minor infl ammatory lesions within the intestinal wall, and gastroscopy showed features of mild chronic gastritis. Gastroenterologists excluded an exacerbation of IBD and other gastrointestinal conditions as the reason for deterioration of the patient's clinical status. At the same time the patient suff ered pain localized in the left upper extremity (numbness, increasing fatigue and pain upon exercise). For this reason, the patient was referred to the local angiological ward. At the time of admission to the clinic, physical examination showed a murmur over the subclavian arteries, differing blood pressure between the right and left brachial arteries (the pressure on the left side was undetectable), an absence of pulse in the brachial, radial and ulnar arteries of the left upper extremity, and a positive Allen's test. No abnormalities of the arterial blood fl ow in the lower extremities were identifi ed. Laboratory tests were as follows: microcytic anaemia (Hb 9.3 g/ dl; MCV 78.8 fl , MCHC 28.4 g/dl, RBC 4.16 million/ul), thrombocytosis (PLT 633,000/ul), an increase in infl ammatory markers (ESR 102 mm; CRP 134.36 mg/dl, fi brinogen 8.2 g/l) and positive ANA test (granular pattern, titre 1:1,000). Antibody tests (cANCA, pANCA, anti-cardiolipin, lupus anticoagulant) were negative. Th e level of the rheumatoid factor was within normal range (RF 5.5, IU/ml). Evidence of previous CMV infection (anti-CMV IgM antibodies – negative, anti-CMV IgG: 454 AU/ml) was found. Other tests to determine bacterial, viral or parasitic infection were negative: WR, HbsAg, anti-HCV antibodies, anti-HBe antibodies, toxoplasma IgG and IgM were negative. A Doppler-duplex examination of the upper extremities revealed aneurysmal dilations (of up to 19.7 mm diameter) in the right subclavian and axillary arteries along with segmental narrowings. High-resistance blood fl ow (PSV/ EDV: 76/5 cm/s) was observed in the right subclavian artery. In the distal part of the right upper extremity the blood fl ow rate was 18 cm/sec (PSV) in the radial artery and 20 cm/s (PSV) in the ulnar artery. Th ere was also a decrease of the blood fl ow velocity and very low-resistance fl ow (PSV/ EDV: 17/6 cm/s) in the distal section of the left subclavian artery and left axillary artery indicating proximal occlusion. No fl ow was detected in the left brachial, ulnar and radial arteries. Also, bilateral concentric hypoechoic thickening (to 15 mm) of the vascular wall in the subclavian arteries was observed. Th ere were no abnormalities of the carotid or lower extremity arteries, and normal high-resistanceartery accompanied by lower blood pressure in the arm was found. A concentric hypoechoic thickening of the vascular wall and decreased resistance with blood fl ow rate PSV/ EDV: 65/5 cm/s in the subclavian artery were detected by-Doppler duplex examination. Th ere was also a very low-resistance fl ow of PSV 9 cm/s in the ulnar artery and low-resistance fl ow of PSV 25 cm/s in the radial artery. However, ischaemic symptoms in the right upper extremity had not increased signifi cantly due to a well-developed collateral circulation. Th ere was no progression of the size of the right subclavian artery. For that reason, invasive endovascular procedures weren't considered. Th e immunosuppressive therapy had just been modifi ed by including cyclosporine and steroids. During the subsequent three years, there was no progression of the vascular disease and no exacerbation of UC. Th e size of the right subclavian aneurysm had not grown. Th e size of the thoracic and subclavian aneurysm at control angio-CT was also stable.
