A three-year-old, 17-kg girl presented with labored breathing, abdominal pain, anorexia, fever, and fatigue. Lactate dehydrogenase, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and C-reactive protein were elevated at 444 IU/L, 28 mm/h, and 2.1 mg/dL, respectively. On physical examination, the patient was noted to have tachycardia (133-166 bpm) and an intermittent gallop, without an obvious murmur or rub. Pulses were thready without evidence of pulsus paradoxus. The patient had required multiple fluid boluses for preload responsive hypotension. An abdominal ultrasound demonstrated a mediastinal mass, which was confirmed with chest X-ray (CXR; ). An echocardiogram showed a large mediastinal mass in the inferior mediastinum, appearing to originate from the inferior/apical portion of the heart, causing superior displacement of the heart. No evidence of myocardial invasion was observed. Compression of the right ventricle without evidence of overt tamponade physiology (30% respiratory variation in tricuspid valve inflow) was noted. A small to moderate loculated pericardial effusion was appreciated. Computed tomographic (CT) scan demonstrated a localized 7.5 Â 9.0 Â 5.0 cm 3 heterogenous soft tissue mass that appeared to arise from the inferior aspect of the pericardium ( and B). In order to rule out lymphoma, which is sensitive to chemoradiotherapy, and to determine the goals of surgical resection, percutaneous core needle biopsy of the mass was performed.The tumor consisted of pleomorphic spindled cells occurring in clusters. Many tumor cells revealed eosinophilic cytoplasm (strap-like cells) resembling skeletal muscle differentiation. Immunostains for desmin and myogenin were positive, consistent with an embryonal RMS. No areas of alveolar morphology were seen in the limited sample. Because of positional-dependent hemodynamic compromise, the patient was taken for tumor resection prior to initiation of chemotherapy. Following a median sternotomy, dense inflammatory adhesions between the pericardium and the heart were encountered. Cardiopulmonary bypass was initiated via the ascending aorta and right atrial appendage. Heart decompression greatly facilitated tumor resection. The tumor was densely adherent to the diaphragmatic surface of the heart , encompassing the entire inferior aspect of the right ventricle with extension along the left ventricular surface but without myocardial invasion . Envelopment of the inferior caval vein by the tumor, without invasion, was also encountered. Exploration of both pleural spaces demonstrated no evidence of metastatic disease or phrenic nerve involvement. All visible tumor was resected . Margins from the right atrium and right ventricle were taken and found to be negative for disease. Surgical histology demonstrated a biphasic neoplasm with round, medium-sized cells with eccentric nuclei arranged in nests and a second population of cells arranged in sheets with myxoid background and similar nuclear morphology. Cytoplasmic cross striations were seen in some cells. Immunohistochemical stains showed that the cells arranged in nests were positive for desmin and myogenin and those arranged in sheets had cytoplastic reactivity for bcl2. Both components were negative for S-100, cytokeratin AE1/AE3, and CD99 . The patient was extubated on postoperative day 1 and discharged home on postoperative day 5. The patient was readmitted ten days later after a CXR demonstrated a large left pleural effusion requiring drainage. Cytologic evaluation of the pleural fluid was negative for malignancy. The patient has subsequently undergone a bone marrow biopsy and a bone scan, which were negative for malignancy. The tumor was classified as stage 3, group IIA. Chemotherapy was initiated with vincristine, dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (VAC). The patient received four cycles of chemotherapy prior to undergoing radiation treatment. Four-dimensional CT simulation of the patient's chest was performed. After multidisciplinary discussions, the potential areas at risk for microscopic residual disease were ascertained. Because the preoperative CT demonstrated pericardial fluid extending to the base of the great arteries, the patient initially received 21.6 Gy to the entire heart, pericardium, and the adjacent left hemidiaphragm. This was followed by a limited field boost dose of 19.8 Gy to the left hemidiaphragm, adjacent ventricles, and posterior aspect of the heart up to the pulmonary vessels. The superior aspect of the pericardium adjacent to the great vessels received a limited field boost dose of 9 Gy. Thus, the microscopic disease in the left hemidiaphragm and adjacent regions of the heart received 41.4 Gy and the superior aspect of the pericardium received 30.6 Gy. Radiation therapy was delivered using an intensity modulated technique with daily cone beam CT localization to ensure maximal protection of the noninvolved regions of the heart. Cine images were obtained periodically to ascertain cardiac and diaphragmatic motion and their inclusion in the planning target volume throughout treatment. Dactinomycin was held during radiotherapy. The patient completed 45 weeks of VAC. Myeloid growth factor and prophylactic trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole were administered.At 15 months following resection, the patient is doing well with no evidence of residual or recurrent disease as demonstrated by CT scan.pericardium, and loculated pericardial effusion. The patient was found to have embryonal RMS after undergoing a partial anterolateral pericardiectomy. Chemotherapy was initiated, but the patient died on the 34th day of admission after developing neutropenia and respiratory insufficiency. 4 Rhabdomyosarcoma, representing 5% of all childhood cancers, is the most common soft tissue sarcoma of childhood. Although rising from primitive mesenchymal cells committed to skeletal muscle differentiation, it can occur in a variety of tissues. Sixty percent of RMS are of the embryonal histologic subtype, 20% are alveolar, and the remainder of cases are pleomorphic. Approximately 14% of children with RMS have metastatic disease, most commonly to the lung, bone marrow, or bone. 5 The three-year failure-free survival of children with RMS has improved to more than 75%, and those with nonmetastatic RMS have an overall survival of 86% withmultimodality therapy. Prognosis is based on tumor histology, stage (location, size, regional lymph nodes, and distant metastasis), and the completeness of surgical resection. 6 Our patient had tachycardia and hypotension, which improved with intravenous fluid administration. Although only a few cases of primary cardiac RMS have been reported to present with cardiac tamponade, 7,8 25 cases of intrapericardial teratoma have been reported to present with tamponade physiology, of which 8 cases presented beyond infancy. The tamponade is most commonly due to tumor rupture or pericardial perforation causing pericardial effusion, leading Singh et al to recommend early surgical excision of mediastinal teratomas, even for extrapericardial locations. 9 In our patient, we believe that direct cardiac compression by the tumor impacted her hemodynamics, as evidenced by her need for an elevated preload. Successful tumor resection of intrapericardial RMS can be performed and is aided by the use of cardiopulmonary bypass. Resection of our patient's tumor prevented acute hemodynamic collapse and in combination with chemoradiotherapy may provide her with good long-term survival.
