A 40-year-old man with a history of deep venous thrombosis after parotidectomy for a benign lesion, recurrent strokes, and right-sided pulmonary embolism was evaluated for 5 years of progressive exertional dyspnea and suspected CTEPH. He had no known hereditary thrombophilia. Preoperative ventilation– perfusion scintigraphy demonstrated absent perfusion to the right lung and small defects in the left lower lobe . Pulmonary angiography confirmed occlusion of the proximal right PA with no distal flow ( ; Movie I in the Data Supplement). His mean PA pressure was 35 mm Hg, pulmonary vascular resistance was 511 dyne/s per cm 5 , and cardiac index was 2.3 L/min per m 2. Coronary angiography revealed a 4.6-mm diameter corkscrew vessel arising from the left circumflex artery and traveling to the right lung ( ; Movie II in the Data Supplement). He had no significant coronary artery disease. The patient underwent bilateral pulmonary thromboendarterectomy (PTE; ), during which a small atrial septal defect was found and repaired. Collaterals were noted throughout the mediastinum, particularly around the aorta traversing toward the right lung and directly penetrating the right main PA. Final mean PA pressure was 38 mm Hg, pulmonary vascular resistance was 296 dyne/s per cm 5 , and cardiac index was 3.0 L/min per m 2. Improvements were evident on subsequent ventilation–perfusion scans. His hospital course was complicated by a superficial sternal wound infection and pericardial effusion, but he was discharged on postoperative day 24.
A 46-year-old man presented to an outside facility with hemoptysis after completing antibiotics for pneumonia. A ventilation–perfusion scan revealed absent perfusion to the entire left lung. He was diagnosed with a left-sided pulmonary embolism and initiated on warfarin. Five months later, he was evaluated at our center for PTE for suspected CTEPH. He had no family history of deep venous thrombosis/pulmonary embolism. A repeat ventilation–perfusion scan showed overall poor perfusion to the left lung, particularly the lower lobe and apex . Pulmonary angiography verified a stump-occluded left PA with trivial distal flow ( ; Movie III in the Data Supplement). Mean PA pressure was 50 mm Hg, pulmonary vascular resistance was 914 dyne/s per cm 5 , and cardiac index was 1.8 L/min per m 2. Coronary angiography revealed a 3.7-mm diameter vessel arising from the left circumflex artery and traversing toward the left lung ( ; Movies IV and V in the Data Supplement). He had no significant coronary artery disease. He underwent bilateral PTE . No congenital heart defect was found. Postoperative mean PA pressure was
