A 65-year-old man with a history of dyslipidemia was admitted to our hospital to evaluate of his liver function. He had experienced nausea and epigastric discomfort three days earlier and noted brown urine two days before admission. Prior to admission, he had visited a nearby clinic, and routine laboratory examinations detected abnormal liver function parameters. He was therefore referred to our hospital for a close examination and treatment. On a physical examination, his blood pressure was 124/72 mmHg, his pulse rate was 66 beats per minute and his body temperature was 36.6°C. The conjunctiva was yellow, and cardiac auscultation was unremarkable; specifically, there were no audible murmurs, gallops or signs of pericardial friction rub. The patient's abdomen was slightly distended, and the edge of the liver was four finger-widths below the right costal margin in the midclavicular line. No edema was evident in the Aprwas diagnosed with IgG4-RD. Contrast-enhanced CT of the chest revealed thickening of the pericardium, suggesting fibrous thickening . The administration of 30 mg of prednisolone ameliorated his nausea and abdominal discomfort, and the serum levels of amylase and other liver enzymes gradually returned to normal . In addition, the serum IgG4 level decreased to 205 mg/dL after three months. Follow-up CT images of the abdomen obtained after the completion of corticosteroid therapy showed gradual regression of enlargement of the pancreas, which was enhanced homogeneously, in addition to improvements in the intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile duct dilatation and thickening of the common bile duct wall ( , c). Although the pericardial thickening improved after the steroid therapy, slight thickening remained on the latest CT examination ( , f). The initial dose of prednisolone was administered for four weeks, then tapered by 5 mg every two weeks to a maintenance dose of 2.5 mg/day. An ECG recorded one year after disease onset showed ST segment depression and T wave inversion in both the limb and precordial leads
). An ECG recorded after two years showed that the ST segments and T waves had returned to near control values . No recurrence was noted two years after the initial treatment.
