A 73-year-old woman was admitted to our Emergency Department, presenting with worsening and recurring progressive dyspnea for two weeks (NYHA Class III). She had no history of any cardiac diseases. Her past medical history was significant for the evaluation of right breast mass and she was diagnosed with mucinous breast cancer last year. At that time, there were metastases to the right axillary lymph nodes. Since she refused advanced therapies, such as chemotherapy, and had not visited the doctor regularly, we could not have any other information about the malignancy status when she was admitted to the hospital. Her blood pressure was 108/60 mmHg, the pulse rate was regular and 133 beats per minute. On physical examination, the right breast was swollen and black and blue colored. There was mild tenderness on palpation of the breast. Inspiratory crepitant rales at the bilateral lower lung zones and S3, S4 heart sounds were heard by auscultation along the left lower parasternal border. An electrocardiogram showed sinusal tachycardia. She did not have any chest pain and the cardiac biomarker levels (Troponin I and CK-MB) were found negative in serial laboratory tests, therefore, myocardial infarction was ruled out. Urgent transthoracic echocardiography revealed a hyperechoic homogenous mass from the apex to the mid-portion in both ventricles. There was mild pericardial effusion all around the heart . Left ventricle (LV) systolic function was found to be normal (LV ejection fraction with biplane Simpson 58%) without regional wall motion abnormalities. The LV dimensions were as follows; the end diastolic diameter was 47 mm and the end systolic diameter was 30 mm in the parasternal long axis view and there was a mild left atrial enlargement (43 mm in the parasternal long axis). Laboratory findings were as follows; D-dimer: 5.65 mg/dl, prothrombin time: 16 sec, activated partial prothrombin time: 35.9 sec, International Normalized Ratio: 1.32, creatinine: 1 mg/dL, hemoglobin: 9.1 g/dL, platelets: 137 000/mL. Both ventricles were half-filled with an homogenous mass; there was no myocardial infiltration. According to these findings, our initial diagnosis was organized thrombus due to an hypercoagulable state of malignancy. She was immediately transferred to our Coronary Intensive Care Unit and intravenous heparin therapy was instituted. Three hours after admission, cardiopulmonary arrest occurred and she died. We offered post mortem examination to find out the final diagnosis, but the patient's relatives did not give permission for the autopsy. Having a diagnosis of mucinous breast carcinoma and the echocardiographic appearance of the mass led us to the interpretation of the mass in both ventricles as organized thrombus.
