An otherwise healthy 46-year-old man developed sudden-onset dyspnea, became unresponsive, and despite resuscitative measures, failed to recover. A review of his medical history was unremarkable except for a 4-month history of intermittent fever, malaise, and sporadic episodes of headache. Autopsy revealed the body of an adequately nourished Caucasian male, 181 cm in height and 79 kg in weight. External examination of the body revealed gynecomastia and a minor full-thickness forehead laceration. Major internal findings were confined to the right kidney and the lungs. Examination of the enlarged right kidney showed a whitish irregular tumor mass protruding from the cortical surface. The cut surface displayed an approximately 8 9 6.5 9 5 cm fleshy, gray-white, poorly circumscribed solid tumor mass with central necrosis that had extended above the cut surface and replaced almost the entire midportion of the renal parenchyma . The tumor mass extended focally into the renal capsule, calyces, renal pelvis, and renal vein. In addition to the irregularly-shaped central tumor mass multiple smaller satellite nodules (up to 1 cm across), that were similar in appearance, were noted in the lower pole of the kidney, with evidence of direct renal vein and pelvis involvement. The right adrenal gland and perinephric fat were grossly uninvolved. The left kidney was unremarkable. No metastatic foci were detected in any regional lymph nodes or distant viscera. The lungs were moderately congested and edematous. There were no signs of lung infarctions or parenchymal tumor implants. The cut surface of both lungs showed grossly visible obstruction of the small pulmonary arteries by whitish homogeneous material. The gross appearance of the emboli was similar to the right kidney masses. Further dissection demonstrated an acutely dilated right cardiac chamber. The cardiovascular system was otherwise unremarkable. Postmortem toxicological assay was noncontributory. Histological examination of multiple samples from the renal masses  and the embolic material from the pulmonary arteries ( , b) revealed highly anaplastic spindle cell morphology with marked nuclear pleomorphism and increased mitotic activity reminiscent of sarcoma. Despite extensive sampling, no epithelial component was revealed histologically. Immunohistochemically, however, the spindle-shaped cells were strongly positive for renal cell carcinoma (RCC) markers , Vimentin , CD 10 (Figs. 2c, 3e), and CD 31. In addition, tumor cells were weakly reactive for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA). All morphological and immunotypical features were consistent with sarcomatoid RCC. The cause of death was determined to be pulmonary tumor embolism due to sarcomatoid RCC.
