A 71-year-old man presented with six months of worsening left buttock discomfort on ambulation. Cardiovascular risk factors included hypertension, current smoking, diabetes, and dyslipidemia. Radiographic imaging of the lumbar spine and hips found mild to moderate degenerative disk disease at L4, moderate to advanced lower lumbar facet arthropathy with spinal canal narrowing, and mild degenerative arthritis of both hips. He also reported a history of right-calf claudication that had been stable for five years. Studies were performed and their results included:-Ankle-brachial indices measured in both the dorsal pedis and posterior tibial arteries on both limbs were indeterminate (systolic pressures >255 mmHg) due to poorly compressible vessels.-Continuous wave Doppler waveforms before the treadmill test from the common femoral arteries on both sides were biphasic, and from the ankle arteries were monophasic on both sides related to PAD . The continuous wave Doppler waveforms results indicated that the lesions were distal to the common femoral and proximal to the below-knee arteries.-After the completion of a treadmill test using a speed of 1.5 mph and a 10% grade, systolic pressures remained elevated (>255 mmHg) at 1 minute for both ankles.-The treadmill test was terminated at 1 minute 55 seconds due to left-leg pain from the buttock to the calf, with no symptoms in the right limb. The electrocardiogram was negative for coronary ischemic changes.
In addition to the standard vascular assessment, the patient participated in an exercise O 2 study that was approved by the Institutional Review Board. Exercise-TcPO 2 was performed according to the published French algorithm as previously described. 14 Briefly, measurement ofon each buttock, 4 to 5 cm behind the bony prominence of the trochanter, and one electrode on the most symptomatic calf, which was the right calf according to the patient. Once the electrodes were in position, a period of 10 minutes in the standing position was required to stabilize the electrodes to obtain baseline values. Exercise was performed on a treadmill at a 10% slope and a speed of up to 2 mph, a different protocol from the routine initial test for post exercise ABI measurement, but one that corresponded to the protocol published in the original validation site) t t is the oxygen pressure at a measurement site at time t, PO 2(site) t 0 is the mean oxygen pressure at a measurement site over the baseline resting period; PO 2(chest) t t is the oxygen pressure at a chest site at time t and PO 2(chest) t 0 is the mean oxygen pressure at a chest site over the resting period. The DROP index was automatically calculated and displayed graphically by a dedicated software package that allowed real-time monitoring of DROP values at the levels where the probes were placed. 14 The lowest DROP value during exercise has been shown to be accurate and reliable in predicting the presence or absence of severe arterial stenosis, as compared to angiography, at the buttock and ankle levels. 14,17 Previous results at the buttock 14 and distal levels 17 have shown that a DROP value lower than −15 mmHg suggests ischemia is present at the TcPO 2 probe site (see Video 1: online supplementary data showing the procedure to perform Exercise Transcutaneous Oxygen pressure measurements). The results of the exercise-TcPO 2 study were a walking time of 2 minutes 11 seconds, with left-buttock discomfort that forced the patient to stop. There was an appropriate increase in chest probe TcPO 2 value during exercise. 15,18 TcPO 2 DROP values at the left buttock, right buttock and right calf were −30 mmHg, −11 mmHg and −26 mmHg, respectively , consistent with ischemia at the left buttock and the right calf. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) confirmed the presence of a severe left common iliac artery stenosis (which could not be quantified as a percentage luminal reduction due to a heavy calcification, as noted by the interpreting radiologist), a moderate stenosis of the left internal iliac artery, a moderate right common iliac stenosis, a moderate right internal iliac artery stenosis and complete occlusion of the right popliteal artery. Endovascular revascularization and stenting was successful on the left common iliac artery, but attempted recanalization of the occluded right proximal popliteal artery was unsuccessful. Two days after the endovascular procedure the patient underwent a second exercise-TcPO 2 study. He walked for 2 minutes and 18 seconds, 7 seconds more than during the pre-procedure test. Walking was stopped due to a general weakness and right-calf claudication, but no left-buttock pain occurred. At the left-buttock, right-buttock and right-calf levels, DROP values were −11 mmHg, −7 mmHg and −43 mmHg respectively , suggesting improved perfusion to the left buttock and persistent ischemia of the right calf.
