An 18-year-old woman with bulimia presented to the emergency department with sudden onset of severe abdominal pain and distension over the previous 2 hours. Within 30 minutes of arrival, her pain started to radiate to her back, she became unresponsive and developed extensive mottling of the skin from the waist down. Further examination revealed a grossly distended abdomen, engorged neck veins and absent femoral pulses bilaterally. She had a blood pressure of 190/132mmHg, a pulse rate of 100/min, a respiratory rate of 28/min, oxygen saturation of 98% on air and a temperature of 37.2°C. Assuming a diagnosis of aortic dissection, the on-call vascular surgeon was bleeped to the emergency department while the patient was being intubated and resuscitated. A venous blood gas sample showed she was in profound metabolic acidosis with a pH of 7.1 and a lactate of 7.6. As the patient was haemodynamically stable, urgent computed tomography was performed. This revealed a massively dilated stomach occupying the majority of the abdominal cavity from the epigastrium down into the pelvis with gas extending into the liver and spleen ( . Alarmingly, it also showed that the abdominal aorta was being compressed and completely occluded above the superior mesenteric artery origin (Figs 2 and 3). The patient was taken to theatre for an emergency laparotomy and on opening the abdominal cavity, she was also found to have extensive small and large bowel ischaemia. A gastrotomy was performed and the stomach was decompressed, with a total of 15l of gastric content being emptied. This resulted in an immediate restoration of circulation with reperfusion of the bowel and return of femoral pulses bilaterally. She was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) with a laparostomy and a plan for a 'relook' laparotomy in 48 hours. Unfortunately, over the next 24 hours, the patient developed disseminated intravascular coagulopathy and liver failure, and went into a profound metabolic acidosis. She was returned to theatre and an extended right hemicolectomy with an end ileostomy was performed for necrosis of the ascending and transverse colon. The stomach was also noted to be slightly dusky so a plan was made to review this again in six hours, at which point a total gastrectomy with cross-stapling of the distal oesophagus was performed. Following this, the patient remained on the ICU for three weeks. She had five further relook laparotomies, a tube oesophagostomy and tube jejunostomy were formed, and, finally, a polyglactin mesh was used to close the abdomen. The patient was intubated and monitored closely on the ICU for the duration of her stay. She received total parenteral nutrition, her coagulopathy was treated and she was started on continuous venovenous haemofiltration. Twenty-three days following the patient's initial procedure, all of her biochemical parameters had returned to within normal range. She was haemodynamically stable and a referral was made to the intestinal failure unit for further care.
