A 23-year-old Japanese woman visited a community hospital with a high fever, abdominal pain, diarrhea, arthralgia and hematochezia. The patient had a past medical history of uveitis, which had become quiescent. She had no family history of inflammatory bowel disease. Although she had received no medications when she first visited the hospital, total colonoscopy was subsequently performed, which revealed erosions and longitudinal ulcers with skip lesions in the colon . Based on these findings and her past medical history of uveitis, CD was suspected. Hence, the administration of mesalazine was started at a daily dose of 3 g, with continued fasting under treatment with total parenteral nutrition. The patient was subsequently referred to our hospital and admitted. Upon admission to our hospital, the patient complained of a high fever, polyarthralgia and muddy stools. The mean frequency of defecation was approximately four times daily; however, a stool culture showed no causative microorganisms. A physical examination conducted on admission disclosed swelling and tenderness of the ankle joints bilaterally, and indolent erythema was noted on the dorsum of the right foot. One week after admission, another indolent erythematous lesion emerged on the left foot. We believed these lesions to be atypical of erythema nodosum due to the absence of pain and speculated that they may be extraintestinal manifestations of CD. Laboratory data obtained on admission demonstrated an increased white blood cell count (WBC: 14,200/μL), platelet count (41.8×10 4 /μL), C-reactive protein level (CRP: 8.68 mg/dL) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (135 mm/h) with normocytic anemia (hemoglobin: 7.8 g/dL, mean corpuscular volume, MCV: 86 fL) . In addition, laboratory tests also showed decreased serum total protein (5.5 g/dL), albumin (2.3 g/dL) and total cholesterol (86 mg/dL) levels. Furthermore, the serum iron level was normal (59 μg/dL), while the serum ferritin level was high (328 ng/mL). Therefore, we considered the anemia to be due to hemorrhage and chronic inflammation. Radiological enteroclysis showed intermittent stenosis and lesions suspicious of longitudinal ulcer scars in the distal ileum . Although pathological examinations of the colon performed at the former hospital and our facility did not reveal any signs of granuloma formation, the patient was diagnosed with CD based on the characteristic radiographic and endoscopic findings ( , C). She did not exhibit any complications of perianal lesions, intraperitoneal abscesses, apparent fistulas or active uveitis. However, she did display polyarthritis and erythematous lesions, likely extraintestinal complications of CD. In our hospital, we continued the administration of mesalazine at a dose of 3 g/day; however, the patient continued to complain of fever and polyarthralgia. We therefore started treatment with ADA at an initial dose of 160 mg, followed by 80 mg after two weeks then 40 mg every other week for maintenance therapy. The Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI), one of the most commonly used scales to evaluate the activity of CD (8), at the time of initiation of ADA treatment was 275 (remission: ! 150, mild activity: 151-220,moderate activity: 221-450, severe activity: >450). Three days after the start of ADA, the polyarthralgia markedly improved. Moreover, the frequency of defecation decreased, reaching an incidence of three bowel movements daily five days after the initiation of ADA treatment. Soon thereafter, the serum transaminase level gradually increased. We suspected a diagnosis of drug-induced liver dysfunction and stopped the dose of mesalazine on day 8 after the start of ADA therapy. Consequently, the serum transaminase level decreased, suggesting that the abnormality in this parameter was indeed drug induced. The patient's clinical symptoms did not worsen after stopping mesalazine, and the CDAI decreased, resulting in clinical remission (CDAI <150). Furthermore, the serum CRP level normalized on day 12 after the initiation of ADA. However, the patient again complained of abdominal pain and a low-grade fever after the fourth administration of ADA. Simultaneously, the serum CRP level rose to 5.71 mg/dL, although the frequency of defecation remained at approximately once daily and no diarrhea was noted. At that time, the CDAI continued to be <150, and she exhibited no symptoms suggestive of perianal complications. These symptoms and laboratory data are atypical of CD relapse. Therefore, we performed abdominal contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT), which subsequently revealed thickening of the wall of the thoracoabdominal aorta . In contrast, CT did not visualize any active lesions in the intestines or any other abscesses. On a physical examination, we detected an abdominal bruit around the upper abdominal area, which had not been heard at the time of ADA initiation. We thus suspected that the patient had developed aortitis during the course of treatment for CD. Gallium scintigraphy  and abdominal ultrasonography  also showed findings consistent with those of aortitis. Meanwhile, Doppler ultrasonography showed no abnormalities, thus suggesting that the aorta was not stenotic. Finally, no serum myeloperoxidase anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (MPO-ANCA) were detectable, and transthoracic echocardiography showed no abnormal findings, including signs of valvular disorders. Based on the increased serum level of CRP, leukocytosis, abdominal bruit and fever, as well as the CT findings of a thickened thoracoabdominal aorta wall, it is possible that the aortitis was caused by TA. The ADA therapy was discontinued due to the possibility of its involvement in the development of aortitis. Prior to discontinuation, ADA was administered five times . We subsequently initiated the administration of oral prednisolone (PSL) at an initial dose of 40 mg (-1 mg/kg) per day for the aortitis, in accordance with the treatment protocol for TA, and the patient's symptoms and serum CRP level rapidly improved. In addition, the PSL was effective for the aortitis and we therefore tapered the dose according to the following schedule: a daily dose of 40 mg for two weeks followed by 30 mg for one week, 20 mg for four weeks andof PSL, the patient's serum CRP level and fever quickly improved, indicating that PSL was effective. It is possible that the inflammation in this case originated from the relapse of CD or the associated aortitis, both of which can improve with PSL treatment. However, the frequency of defecation did not increase, and the patient did not complain of diarrhea. Hence, her symptoms differed from those observed at the beginning of the CD disease course, and we speculate that the inflammation was due to the associated aortitis. The current patient was diagnosed with CD based on the detection of longitudinally arranged ulcers suggestive of the disease on colonoscopy. In addition, the findings of radiological enteroclysis were consistent with those of CD. As to the differential diagnosis, patients with Behçet's disease also develop uveitis and vascular lesions. Although the current patient had a past medical history of uveitis, no other manifestations observed in cases of Behçet's disease, such as ulcers of the pudendum or aphthous stomatitis, were noted, and typical deep ulcerations in the ileocecal area were not detected. The characteristic endoscopic finding of intestinal Behçet's disease is the presence of oval, clear, deep, punched-out ulcers in the ileocecal region. In addition, vascular lesions are commonly seen in the veins in patients with vasculo-Behçet's disease, whereas arterial lesions are rare. Furthermore, aortitis may occur in cases of vasculoBehçet's disease, although it is very rare. Therefore, it is difficult to determine whether the lesions observed in the present case were indicative of vasculo-Behçet's disease or intestinal Behçet's disease, and we cannot completely exclude the 'suspicion of Behçet's disease' based on the Japanese criteria for Behçet's disease. Therefore, the likelihood of this differential diagnosis is low. Another differential diagnosis is intestinal manifestations of TA. There are a few reports describing the onset of intestinal ischemia due to TA (9, 10). The vasculitis associated with TA occurs in the large vessels, with reported cases involving major branches of the aorta as the responsible lesion, subsequently resulting in extensive intestinal ischemia or necrosis. The longitudinal ulcers in the small intestine detected in this case were located on the opposite side of the mesenterium, consistent
