A 69-year-old man presented 2 years before his current admission with a runny nose, nasal congestion, and cough. His chest X-ray showed multiple nodules and tumors in the bilateral lungs . A laboratory analysis revealed proteinuria (30 mg/dL), hematuria (dipstick test 3+, and 10-19 erythrocytes per high power field), and an increased PR3ANCA level of 77 U/mL. The levels of creatinine (0.61 mg/ dL) and creatinine clearance (93.0 mL/min) were within the normal range ( . A transbronchial biopsy showed necrotic granulomas with multi-nucleated giant cells, and a renal biopsy showed crescentic glomerulonephritis. GPA was diagnosed. After the initiation of high-dose corticosteroid treatment [prednisolone (PSL) 50 mg/day] and the intravenous administration of cyclophosphamide (500 mg/body once per month), all of the patient's symptoms and chest Xray findings rapidly improved and the PR3-ANCA level promptly decreased to the normal range. The PSL dosage was tapered to 17.5 mg/day for 7 months and cyclophosphamide was given once a month for 6 months. Although the symptoms and laboratory data showed no signs of recurrence, the patient reported that he had begun to suffer from moderate headaches 7 months before his current admission. Brain CT performed 3 months after the start of the headaches revealed no abnormal findings, however, his symptoms gradually worsened. Contrast-enhanced brain MRI, which was performed 3 months after the CT examination, detected the thickening of the dura mater and suggested that HP had developed as a complication of GPA. The patient was hospitalized in March for further examinations and treatment. His consciousness was clear and he had no neck stiffness. His muscle strength was normal and he had no sensory abnormalities or muscle tenderness. His main vital signs were within general normal limits, including his blood pressure, pulse rate and body temperature. Chest auscultation revealed no rales. Blood tests performed on admission showed an elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) level of 3.8 mg/dL and mild anemia [hemoglobin (Hb) 12.1 g/dL]. The level of PR3-ANCA, which had been markedly elevated at the onset of GPA, was within the normal range, and there was no proteinuria or hematuria, both of which were detected at the onset of GPA. The other representative data are shown in The recurrence of abnormal shadows, which occurred at the onset of GPA, was not detected on a chest X-ray or CT . Contrast-enhanced brain MRI showed the enhanced thickening of the dura mater at the right frontal, temporal and parietal lobes . The patient's cerebral spinal fluid showed slightly elevated levels of protein (61 mg/dL), but no evidence of infectious meningitis ( . HP, as a complication of GPA, was diagnosed based on these findings and the patient's past history of GPA. The patient received 1 g/day of intravenous methylprednisolone (mPSL) for 3 days, followed by oral PSL (20 mg/ day). After the start of these treatments, his inflammatory reactions improved and his headaches resolved. Furthermore, one month after the start of treatment, brain MRI showed an improvement of the thickening of the dura mater. However, the patient's headache was exacerbated in July. After the dose of PSL was increased to 30 mg/day, the patient's headache improved and PSL was then tapered to 10 mg/day over 7 months without a relapse . Subsequent contrastenhanced brain MRI showed further improvement of the thickening of the dura mater .
