The Case Report was approved by the ethics committee of the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine and the patient in this study was given written informed consent for her participation. A 51-year old Chinese woman (158 cm, 61 kg) presented with history of primary hepatocellular carcinoma with liver cirrhosis. Elective right-sided hepatectomy was scheduled. She denied any past surgical histories and had no anomalies on the neck in physical examination. All the vital signs were normal. Platelet counts and liver function were within normal range. The International Normalized Ratio (INR) was 1.35 (normal range: 0.851.15). The electrocardiogram and chest X-ray showed insignificantly findings prior to surgery. After radial artery catheterization was placed, general anesthesia was induced with midazolam 2 mg, etomidate 16 mg, lidocaine 60 mg, and fentanyl 0.3 mg. Patient was intubated with rocuronium 50 mg on controlled ventilation. A 500 ml saline bag was placed under the right shoulder. Patient was placed in Trendelenburg position and her head was tilted to the left about 40 degree. The right neck was prepared and draped for CVC insertion with high central approach. After the finder needle penetrated obliquely into skin towards the right nippleuntil blood return, an 18-gauge introducer needle with 10 ml spring-wire introduction syringe (Arrow® central venous catheter, Arrow International, Asheboro, NC, USA) was inserted to the same site with the similar angle and similar direction as the finder needle did. However, the bright, pulsatile blood was observed during aspiration. The introducer needle was pulled out immediately and local compression was applied for hemostasis. After about 15 min manual compression, a diffused swelling was noted at the base of the right neck. Then CVC via the left internal jugular vein puncture was achieved successfully under the real-time guidance of the ultrasound at one attempt (Arrow® central venous catheter, 7Fr, 20 cm, 0.32 inches, two lumens; Arrow International, Asheboro, NC, USA). The surgery proceeded smoothly and the patient's swelling in right neck was noted without any pulsation and bruit while transporting to ward. On postoperative Day (POD) 1, the swelling was still noticeable at the right neck without any signs of pulsation and bruit. Physical compression about 1 h was applied again. However, the maneuver did not reduce swelling on POD2, and the patient complained of a mild respiratory distress. The emergent Doppler ultrasound and Computed Tomography Angiography were recommended. The ultrasound results  showed that the cervical cystic mass (5*3.2 cm) was located at the right neck and linked with a near artery; the size of orificium fistula was about 0.2 cm, and the flow velocity reached at 0.68 m/s. The computed tomography scan of the neck demonstrated a giant hematoma compressing the internal jugular vein and trachea . After consulting with vascular surgeon, right subclavian artery angiography guided by digital subtraction angiography was immediately ordered about 58 hours postoperatively. A pseudoaneurysm arising from the inferior thyroid artery  was verified and its orificium fistula was embolized by cook clipHilal/Nester® Embolization Microcoil, MWCE-18–2.0-2-HILAL /MWCE-18-143-NESTER, Cook Incorporated, Bloomington, USA) . The procedure was successful by the confirmation of the ultrasound re-scanning without any abnormal flow . The patient remained stable, and was discharged on POD 10 without any sequelae.
