A 46 year-old woman (weight 63 kg; height 168 cm) with heart failure underwent surgery for mitral valve replacement (MVR) in year 2012. After the surgery, an anticoagulant therapy with acenocoumarol was added to the main treatment. She had no history of hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and other related diseases which may influence the anticoagulant therapy. The value of the base INR was 1.2. At the beginning of the therapy, she started with the usual recommended dose of acenocoumarol: 2 mg/day for the first three days. The INR was measured daily during the hospitalization of the patient. After haematuria with INR 7 on the second day, the acenocoumarol dose was gradually reduced to 1 mg/day after every INR laboratory monitoring. Her INR remained beyond the therapeutic range (INR[4) until the dose gradually titrated up to 0.25 mg/day after one month. During the treatment period with acenocoumarol, patient was not taking any concomitant drugs which increase or decrease INR values. The patient was a former smoker and didn't consume alcohol or any dietary supplements during the treatment. Her liver and renal functions were normal, and she had no history of allergic reactions. The second patient was a 60 year-old Bulgarian man underwent surgery for atrial valve replacement (AVR) in year 2012, who came for treatment with acenocoumarol. The value of the base INR was 0.8. The INR was measured daily duringLoga VKORC1 genotype is 1 for GG, 2 for GA, 3 for AA and CYP2C9 genotypes is 1 for CYP2C9*1*1, 2 for CYP2C9*1*2,the hospitalization of the patient. After three days of treatment with acenocoumarol 4.0 mg/day, the value of INR reached 8. This was followed by reduction of the dose to 2 mg/day, but the values remained outside of the therapeutic INR range. The new reduction of the dose to 1 mg/day was carried out and the value of INR became 2.5. The time to reach a stable anticoagulation was more than 1 month with five nontherapeutic INR values range (INR [ 3.5). The dose for stable anticoagulation was 1 mg/day. The patient was a current smoker and didn't consume alcohol or any dietary supplements during the treatment with acenocoumarol. His liver and renal functions were normal, and he had no history of allergic reactions. The starting acenocoumarol dose in both cases was recommended by the hospital protocols. Both patients were counseled to follow a diet low in vitamin K in the beginning of the acenocoumarol therapy. We described two cases with rare combination of genotypes in VKORC1 and CYP2C9 genes. Both patients needed more than 1 month to stabilize their anticoagulation. Genotyping of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 showed that both patients were carriers of heterozygous alleles for CYP2C9*2/*3 and homozygous alleles for VKORC1 1173 T/T and VKORC1-1639 A/A (Figs. 1, 2, and 3) . This combination of genotypes points to extreme sensivity to acenocoumarol leading to the low dose (0.25 or 1 mg/day, respectively) needed to reach the target INR of 2.5–3. Both patients had identical genotypes for VKORC1g.-1639G/A (rs9926231), VKORC1 g1173C/T (rs9934438), VKORC1 (rs17708472 and rs2884737), CYP2C9*2 (rs1799853), CYP2C9*3 (rs1057910), and ApoE (rs429358 and rs7412), but they were different in VKORC1 (rs7294) and CYP4F2 V433M (rs2108622). The woman carried wild type for both variants, whereas the man with 1 mg/day acenocoumarol requirements was a homozygote carrier of these polymorphisms, which explains the necessity of a higher dose of coumarin anticoagulant to reach stable values of INR. Also anthropometric characteristics deg.such as height and weight in male patients are superior to female. This is the probable reason for the higher dose requirement of acenocoumarol in male. It is well known that height and weight are the major factors significantly affecting the optimal dose anticoagulant, which was confirmed in our patients. There are many pharmacogenetic algorithms, previously developed for warfarin in different population groups , but these for acenocoumarol are considerably less and insufficient (
The results from genotyping of selected polymorphic variants in both Bulgarian patients
). We used univariate and multivariate linear regression analyses to evaluate major genetic and non-genetic factors and their influence on maintenance of daily dose acenocoumarol in studied cohort of patients. For generation of the best pharmacogenetic algorithms, different variables such as age, gender, diagnosis, weight, amiodarone use, CYP2C9*2, CYP2C9*3, CYP4F2, GCCX, ApoE, and VKORC1-1639G[A genotypes were included in the final multivariate linear regression analyses. The main differences between the algorithms are presented in . The first dosing algorithm for prediction of an optimal maintenance dose of acenocoumarol was published in 2008 by
). The algorithm was developed for the Greek population and included the genotypes of polymorphic variants in CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genes as genetic factors and only age as a clinical factor. Together, in a multivariable regression model, these factors explained about 55% of acenocoumarol dosing variability. The study was retrospective and was conducted in 98 patients receiving oral anticoagulant treatment. According to the authors, the limitations of the study are its retrospective character, the small sample size and the heterogeneity in age and cause of anticoagulation . In 2011 year, van Schie et al. developed clinical and genotype-guided algorithms for acenocoumarol dose prediction in the Dutch population (van ). The factors such as CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes, weight, height, sex, age, and amiodarone use were included in final multivariable regression analysis (van ). The authors validated the new acenocoumarol algorithm in a different patient cohort from the Dutch population. The main limitation of the study was missing data about patient compliance and non-compliance and information about drugs other than amiodarone, ethnicity, and smoking status. The strengths of this study were that the algorithms were developed using large patient populations and that the acenocoumarol dosing algorithm performed equally well when validated in independent prospective data set. In study of Rathore et al in 2012 multiple, linear stepwise regression which include age, sex, height, weight, body surface area, smoking status, VKORC11639G[A, CYP4F2V366MG[A, CYP2C9*2,*3, and GGCX 12970C[G polymorphisms as variables were used to generate acenocoumarol dosing algorithm that explains 41.4% of dosage variation . In year 2012 Borobia et. al ascertained the influence of clinical and genetic variables on the stable acenocoumarol dose by multiple linear regression analysis in a derivation cohort (n = 117) and developed an algorithm for dosing that included clinical factors (age, body mass index, and concomitant drugs) and genetic variations of VKORC1, CYP2C9, CYP4F2, and APOE. The clinical factors explained 22% of the dose variability which increased to 60.6%, when pharmacogenetic information was included . The group of Cerezo-Manchado et al. in 2011 created an algorithm using the data from 973 retrospectively selected anticoagulated patients and was validated in a second independent cohort adding up to 2 683 patients. The best regression model to predict stable dosage in the primary cohort included clinical factors (age and body mass index, BSA) and genetic variants (VKORC1, CYP2C9* and CYP4F2 polymorphisms) and explained up to 50% of the stable dose . In 2013, Kumar et al. publicized pharmacogenetic algorithm based on data from 170 patients on therapy with acenocoumarol following heart valve replacement surgery. The multivariate analysis revealed that age, body mass index (BMI), CYP2C9*2, CYP2C9*3, and VKORC1 (-1639 G[A) contribute to 30.4% of the variation in the mean daily maintenance dose of acenocoumarol . The limitation of the study was that it demonstrated only the exact degree of association of genetic variability on acenocoumarol dose requirement without consideration of impact of environmental and other factors. We believe that further studies with addition of other genetic factors such as single nucleotide polymorphisms in the VKORC1 intron region, CYP4F2, CYP2C18, GGCX, and EPHX1 genes with a large sample size may significantly improve their dosing model. Another study of Radu Pop et al. in year 2013 analyzed the relationship between the CYP2C9 and VKORC1 polymorphisms and the weekly acenocoumarol dose in Romanian patients and used a multiple linear regression in order to achieve a model for the pharmacogenetic algorithm in the main studied group. The weekly dose of acenocoumarol was used as a dependent variable (log-transformed). The following data were included in the regression model: age, sex, body mass index (BMI), diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis (DVT), and diagnosis of atrial fibrillation (AF). The predicted acenocoumarol dose was then back-transformed . Finally, the study of Wolkanin-Bartnik J et al. included 235 outpatients of the Institute of Cardiology (Warsaw, Poland) receiving acenocoumarol for artificial heart valves and/or atrial fibrillation. A multiple linear regression analysis was performed using log-transformed effective acenocoumarol dose as a dependent variable, and combining CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotyping with other clinical factors as independent predictors. Clinical and genetic factors explained 49.0% of the acenocoumarol dose variability . The main limitation of their investigation was that the study population mainly included patients with arterial fibrillation and artificial heart valves. There were only six patients with venous thromboembolic disease and this could affect the generality of the algorithm. Another limitation was the missing data about factors such as smoking or concomitant medications, which have been found to influence acenocoumarol dose requirements. Because we have no information about the genotypes of GGCX polymorphic variant for our two patients on acenocoumarol therapy, it was impossible to apply the equation of Rathore et al. to calculate the optimal dose of coumarin anticoagulant. About the equations of there was a missing information for the values of the independent coefficients, which also makes the application of these equations impossible to our data. Only the equations of could be applied in our two cases with low acenocoumarol requirements. Comparison of the dose of acenocoumarol that should be introduced in our patients based on different dosing models is included in . All algorithms predict relatively similar doses. Among the five compared algorithms, these of Radu better prediction in the patient with daily dose of one milligram per day anticoagulant. However, the algorithm of van Schie et al. showed better prediction of the acenocoumarol dose in the second patient with optimal dose of 0.25 milligrams per day. In the global algorithms, the standard error of the predicted value tended to vary with dose. When patients needed \1.00 mg/day, the standard error of the predicted value was higher and minor when patient took [1.00 mg/day.
