We report the case of a previously healthy 14-year-old girl who came to see us due to painful lesions of 6 months' duration on her thighs. The lesions had been interpreted as cellulitis at another institution and the patient had been treated with intravenous (IV) antibiotics (Clindamycin and Trimethoprim / sulfamethoxazole) for 7 days, with little response. On dermatological examination, we observed erythematous and brownish plaques at the inner side of both thighs with multiple, underlying, painful, indurated nodules and, on the dorsal back, an injury with similar features . Additional tests were requested and the complete blood count (CBC) showed: white blood cells (WBC) 10280 mm3 (N 84%, L 10%, M 5%, E 1%); Hb: 12.8 g / dl, platelet count: 315000 mm3; erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR): 36 mm/h and c-reactive protein (CRP): 7 mg/l. Serologies were negative. Histopathological biopsy and culture of the lesion were performed, showing discrete mixed infl ammatory infi ltrate consisting of histiocytes, lymphocytes, occasional eosinophils and isolated neutrophils with perivascular and periadnexal arrangement, and vasculitic phenomenon associated with extension to subcutaneous fat lobules and septa; diagnosis: mild nonspecifi c septal and lobular dermohipodermitis. The fungus Aureobasidium pullulans was isolated in a culture taken from the lesion. New nodules appeared in the arms, elbow folds and right ankle. The lesions at the thighs became painful and erythematous, which made walking diffi cult. She was admitted to hospital and received B amphotericin (total cumulative dose 1m/kg/day), Clindamycin 30 mg / kg / day and morphine 0.1 mg/kg/dose IV. During hospitalization, the patient showed partial remissions of the symptoms. Because of exacerbation of the pain, adding edema of upper and lower limbs, fever and coagulopathy (prothrombin time decreased), we decided to perform a new surgical biopsy and culture . This latter histology showed an " unaltered epidermis, the deep dermis and hypodermis had numerous small-and mediumsized vessels (some arterial) with occasional fi brinoid necrosis and fi brin microthrombi in small vessels. The infi ltrate was rich in polymorphonuclear cells and eosinophils affecting the entire vessel diameter (disseminated leukocytoclastic vasculitis). The most preserved vascular structures showed intimal degeneration, prominent endothelium and marked perivascular lymphocytic infi ltrate (Figures 4, 5 and 6). PAS, Ziehl Nielsen, Giemsa staining and culture were negative. Because of the histological features, we arrived at the diagnosis of " Polyarteritis Nodosa. " New CBC reported leukocytosis and neutrophilia: WBC 13000 mm3 ( 71%N), increased ESR 76 mm/h and CRP 55 mg/l; complete metabolic panel (CMP) and urinalysis (UA) were normal; negative ANCA; negative throat culture and antiestreptolysinO (ASO) titers were 2580 IU / ml. Ophthalmologic and cardiac evaluations were normal. We performed abdominal CT angiography and thoracic CT, whose results were unremarkable. She began a treatment with oral meprednisone 1.3 mg/kg /day for a month with gradual decline and intramuscular (IM) benzathine penicillin 2,400,000 UI every 28 days, which she still receives with a favorable response. She is periodically monitored at the Dermatology Department and shows no residual skin lesions or other systemic symptoms.
