A 65-year-old Chinese male experienced chest congestion and shortness of breath after exertion for 11 years, but he had ignored them. He presented with worsening dyspnea and increasing fatigue for the past 3 months. His blood pressure was 133/72 mmHg and his heart rate was 110 beats per min. Heart auscultation revealed grade II ejection systolic murmur at the left parasternal border. Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm. Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed a homogeneous parenchymal mass of 27 × 12 mm in size with peripheral hyperechogenicity. The mass located in the mid-basal portion of IVS, anterior to the right coronary sinus. There was mild tricuspid regurgitation (TR) without annular dilatation and cusp prolapse on TTE. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a round-like signal, measuring 36 × 20 mm, in the upper portion of IVS, anterior to the right coronary sinus of aorta. The images of tissue characterization suggested that the mass was consisted of adipose tissue . Cardiac computed tomography (CT) scan with intravenous contrast confirmed the existence of a round-like hypodense mass (−117Hu), measuring 37 × 21 mm in its largest diameter, superior to the IVS and anterior to the right coronary sinus of aorta . The traditional surgical treatment has been performed. A standard median longitudinal sternotomy was carried out. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was routinely applied, and myocardial protection through the aortic root infusion of cold cardioplegic solution and topical hypothermia of the heart. Antegrade cardioplegic arrest was achieved after application of an aortic cross-clamp. After longitudinal incision of right atrium and the main pulmonary artery, a yellowish neoplasm was found embedded in the upper portion of IVS beneath the pulmonary valve, projecting into the right ventricular outflow tract. The muscular septum was incised longitudinally and the tumor was excised en bloc from the IVS. The muscular septum and the right ventriculotomy were re-approximated with running 4-0 prolene sutures. Postoperative pathology reported lipoma , measuring 40 × 30 × 20 mm, encapsulated and composed of mature adipose tissue. The patient recovered well without any complications. He was discharged on the postoperative day 13. His pre-operative symptoms resolved and no further medication treatment is needed. The patient was doing well in his 8 months post operative follow up appointment.
