A 43-year-old Gravida III Para 0 presented to our labor ward with pain of the left flank started 60 min before and nausea in 40 ? 6 weeks of gestation. Her medical history revealed no previous laparotomy, preexisting diseases, or trauma; the pregnancy had been conceived with assisted reproduction (ICSI), and two first-trimester miscarriages were reported. The course of the pregnancy had been monitored in our unit, and all maternal and fetal controls had been unremarkable including the last ultrasound examination at the same day 9 h before. On admission, she was conscious and orientated; blood pressure, maternal heart rate, and temperature were normal (BP: 112/85 mmHg, pulse: 80 bpm, T 35.8 °C). The fetal wellbeing was assessed by umbilical Doppler sonography with unremarkable fetal heart rate and normal Doppler indices (PI 1.07, RI 0.66, FHR 113 bpm); there were neither sonographic signs of placental abruption nor maternal hydronephrosis. Vaginal examination revealed no bleeding and the cervix was closed. The abdominal examination revealed strong tenderness of the left flank but no signs of acute abdominal rigidity. Immediate laboratory results showed a slight elevation of leucocytes (17.6 G/l) but otherwise normal hemoglobin (11.8 g/dl) and platelet count (338 g/l). Due to rapidly increasing severe maternal pain and sudden fetal bradycardia revealed in cardiotocography, an emergency cesarean section was performed without a definite diagnosis; uterine rupture or placental abruption was suspected. A severely depressed fetus was delivered (APGAR score 2, 6 and 7 after 1, 5, and 10 min, respectively; weight 3950 g, length 56 cm, head circumference 35 cm, the umbilical arterial ph and base deficit were 6.55 and-30 mmol/l, respectively), successfully reanimated and admitted to NICU. After closure of the uterus the abdominal cavity was explored and found unremarkable. Estimated blood loss was 800 ml. During the operation, the patient had completely normal results regarding blood circulation, oxygenation, and coagulation profile. However, a slight elevation of maternal serum lactate (3.9 mmol/l) was noted and hemoglobin dropped to 8.6 g/dl. Subsequent laboratory tests revealed a serum lactate increase to 6.4 mmol/l. An emergency computed tomography angiography was initiated, demonstrating a ruptured renal artery aneurysm of 3 9 2 cm size with active bleeding and associated massive retroperitoneal hematoma (Figs. 1, 2). Immediate endovascular aneurysm repair was successfully performed by placement of a covered stent graft. At the same time, two packages of red cells were transfused and after angiography confirmed cessation of bleeding the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit for further surveillance. At the next day, the patient complained again because of severe pain in the left flank, went into hypovolemic shock (blood pressure decreased to 85/50 mmHg and hemoglobin dropped to 4.4 g/dl), and repeated active bleeding due to a distal foreshortening of the stent graft with consecutive leakage was detected by computer tomography. Immediately performed stent extension by placement of a second stent graft distally was successfully performed, and packed erythrocytes and fresh frozen plasma were given. However, one day later an increase of the hematoma which started to drain into the abdominal cavity and further blood loss occurred again, so that the decision for nephrectomy was made and performed. After nephrectomy and additional transfusion of red cells, the patient recovered rapidly. She could be discharged after 16 days without any medication. The hemoglobin was 11.9 g/dl and further investigation of vessels by Doppler sonography did not show any other aneurysms. A MRT of the intracranial vessels was unremarkable.
