History and Examination A 13-year-old boy with a medical history of MAS, thrombocytopenia and GPS, meningiomatosis, recurrent epistaxis, and biliary atresia status after a failed KasaiDepartment of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San Francisco, California A 13-year-old boy with meningiomatosis, McCune-Albright syndrome, and gray platelet syndrome presented with an enlarging " lump " on his right forehead. A head CT scan revealed a polyostotic fibrous dysplasia involving the entire skull. A 3.4-cm right frontal osseous cavity and an overlying right forehead subcutaneous soft-tissue mass were seen, measuring 5.2 cm in diameter and 1.6 cm thick. Ultrasound of the cavity and overlying mass showed swirling of blood and an arterialized waveform. MRI revealed an en plaque meningioma underlying the cavity. An intraosseous pseudoaneurysm fed by 3 distal anterior division branches of the right middle meningeal artery (MMA) with contrast extravasation was found on angiography. Two MMA feeders were embolized with Onyx, with anterograde filling of the intraosseous cavity with Onyx. A small pocket of residual intracavity contrast filling postembolization from a smaller third MMA feeder eventually thrombosed and the forehead lump regressed.(portoenterostomy) procedure, was brought into an outside primary care physician by his parents with a slowly enlarging " lump " on his right forehead. The mass had progressively increased in size over the previous 4 weeks. No antecedent trauma to the area was reported. He denied pain, tenderness, pressure sensation, or headaches. There had been no seizures, loss of consciousness, nausea, vomiting, or personality change. Because of GPS, the patient had also needed multiple platelet transfusions, especially in the setting of orthopedic surgery. Apart from an antibiotic course for recent pneumonia, the patient was not taking any medications, with the exception of having taken a bisphosphonate in the past. His cognitive development has been normal. He attends school and lives with his parents. Physical examination revealed short stature, limb deformities, and cherubic face characteristic of MAS. A 3-cm swollen raised area of skin was noted over the right forehead ( and B). The forehead lesion was soft, boggy, and nontender to palpation. A bruit was heard over the lesion on auscultation. The patient was neurologically intact. At an outside hospital, an initial noncontrast head CT scan revealed a polyostotic fibrous dysplasia involving the entire skull. The CT scan also revealed a large right frontal osseous cavity with slightly irregular but well-defined borders within a thickened frontal bone, measuring 3.4 × 3.0 × 3.1 cm . The density within the cavity measured 45 HU. A focal 3-mm dehiscence of the inner table and a 27-mm-wide defect in the outer table were noted. A large soft-tissue density mass was noted extending out of the right frontal osseous cavity into the overlying right forehead subcutaneous tissue, measuring 5.2 cm in maximal diameter and 1.6 cm in thickness. Multiple smaller additional osseous cavities were seen throughout the skull and skull base. Ultrasonography of the right frontal mass was performed, which revealed swirling of blood within the mass with an arterialized Doppler waveform . Because of the visualized flow, no biopsy was performed. Multiple meningiomas were also noted on head MRI, with an en plaque meningioma underlying the right frontal osseous cavity . The patient was transferred to our institution for further angiographic workup of the right frontal lesion and possible endovascular and/or neurosurgical treatment. On admission, the patient's platelet count was 21 × 10 9 /L. The patient underwent platelet transfusion to achieve a platelet count of > 50 × 10 9 /L. A diagnostic cerebral angiogram revealed a right frontal intraosseous pseudoaneurysm fed by 3 distal frontal anterior division branches of the right MMA with extravasation of contrast into the intraosseous cavity . No venous drainage from the cavity was seen. In addition, multifocal areas of beading likely representing tiny aneurysms/pseudoaneurysms and dysplastic changes were seen in multiple anterior division branches of the right MMA, including the branches feeding the pseudoaneurysm. During angiography, significant left lung consolidation was noted in the absence of a left mainstem bronchus intubation. In addition, the anesthesia team noted a significant oxygen requirement. This was likely due to a chronic pneumonia, confirmed by the patient's parents. After consultation with our neurosurgical and pediatric neurology colleagues, the decision was made to treat the pseudoaneurysm endovascularly. The treatment was initially postponed to allow time for the patient's pneumonia to improve.
