A 74-year-old white woman was admitted to hospital with a 3-month history of progressive dyspnea and lethargy. Imaging studies showed the presence of multiple bilateral pulmonary emboli in the context of a right lower limb deep vein thrombosis. Incidentally, baseline laboratory testing revealed severe iron deficiency anemia with hemoglobin (Hb) of 55g/L and ferritin of 10μg/L. She denied any prior history of melena or per rectal bleeding, but admitted a 2-year history of bloating, upper abdominal pain and chronic diarrhea. Besides four prior episodes of deep vein thrombosis in the context of a known heterozygous Factor V Leiden mutation, her past medical history was otherwise unremarkable. Specifically, she had no history of liver disease, cirrhosis or portal hypertension. Her regular medications included an angiotensin II blocker for hypertension, a statin for dyslipidemia, allopurinol for gout and 100mg of aspirin. On physical examination, she was slightly tachycardic (heart rate 105), tachypneic (respiratory rate 26 breaths per minute) and saturating at 96% on room air. Her blood pressure was normotensive at 117/85mmHg, and she was afebrile. An endoscopy revealed a large, clean-based 1.5cm chronic gastric ulcer on the lesser curvature of her stomach scattered diverticuli were noted within her sigmoid colon during colonoscopy. There was no evidence of Helicobacter pylori on biopsy or urease testing and no bleeding was identified at either procedure. She was discharged on high-dose pantoprazole, and warfarin was recommenced for venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis. Her international normalized ratio (INR) was monitored and maintained between 2 and 3 (with good patient compliance). Despite repeat gastroscopy showing resolution of her gastric ulcer, over the next 9 months she represented four times for symptomatic melena and per rectal bleeding, which required at least one unit of packed red blood cells for three of her presentations (Hb <70g/L). Repeat colonoscopies showed multiple, non-bleeding angioectasias which were treated with argon plasma coagulation. Subsequently, rapid active bleeding was demonstrated in her distal ileum with a technetium-99m red blood cell scan, which was concordant with subsequent findings of engorged submucosal veins with red wale marks on capsule endoscopy  and double balloon enteroscopy. Further investigation with a computed tomography (CT) venogram showed obscuration of her superior mesenteric vein (SMV) with surrounding collaterals, suggestive of chronic thrombosis. A surgical opinion was sought regarding therapeutic options, and the patient underwent an elective small bowel resection of 15cm of the distal ileum. At operation, marked varices were noted on her bowel wall, as well as thickened mesentery, which was consistent with SMV thrombosis. Histopathological findings were in keeping with a vascular lesion, as tortuous and collapsed venules and veins were present within the submucosa and muscularis propria (Figs. 2a and 2b). Her protracted admissions were compounded by the necessity of anticoagulation therapy, given her history of recurrent VTEs. Seventeen months post-surgery, however, she has not experienced any further episodes of gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding and her Hb and iron studies have normalized, despite needing lifelong anticoagulation with warfarin.
