A 55-year-old woman was admitted to the emergency room with severe pain in her right knee after a fall. A physical examination on admission revealed a deformity in and swelling of her thigh, with normal neurovascular function. Radiography revealed a right supracondylar femoral fracture (AO Foundation type 33-A2) ( . The patient was not taking anticoagulant medication and osteosynthesis was performed three days after the injury. Closed reduction of the distal femoral fracture was achieved by temporary placement of Schanz pins while she was supine on a radiolucent table. A retrograde intramedullary nail with spiral blade locking (Distal Femoral Nail; Synthes, West Chester, PA, US) was inserted (
. The patient did not receive postoperative antithromboembolic agents such as low-molecular weight heparin. Range of motion exercises, as well as quadriceps and hamstring exercises, were initiated on the second postoperative day, allowing only touch-down weight bearing; partial weight bearing was allowed six weeks after surgery. The swelling of the right medial aspect of the patient's thigh persisted postoperatively and she experienced daily Ann R Coll Surg Engl 2014; 96: e1–e3 doi 10.1308/003588414X13946184900165 Ann R Coll Surg Engl 2014; 96: e1–e3 e1 muscle spasms in the quadriceps. As her vital signs were stable, and she was not anaemic and did not suffer any type of neurological compromise, leg oedema or distal ischaemia, the symptoms were believed to be caused by the haematoma at the fracture site. The haematoma was followed closely without treatment. However, eight weeks after surgery, swelling of the right thigh persisted and was accompanied by severe pain.
Enhanced computed tomography (CT) showed a massive haematoma in the vastus medialis and a pseudoaneurysm of the SFA but not at the level of the screw site (
. Vascular surgery revealed disruption of the SFA adventitia (
. The lesion was managed by direct arterial suturing and the haematoma was evacuated. One month after the vascular surgery, the patient was able to walk with a Tcane and enhanced CT showed no evidence of the pseudoaneurysm or haematoma.
