A 46 year old male patient with unremarkable medical history presented himself to a urologist because of a grossly enlarged right testis. Orchiectomy was performed. Histological examination proved pure choriocarcinoma with a tumor size of 9×7×7 cm. Grossly, the whole enlarged testis was destructed by an extensively hemorrhagic and necrotic tumor mass, which extended through the tunica albuginea. Microscopically, viable tumor cell sheets were located at the periphery of the n e c r o t i c z o n e s , c o m p o s e d o f p r e d o m i n a n t l y cytotrophoblasts intermingled or capped with syncytiotrophoblasts . The tumor cells showed strong positivity with cytokeratin 7 (CK-7) and with βhuman chorionic gonadotropin (β-hCG), and scattered positivity with placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) antibodies. The α-fetoprotein (AFP), the octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT-4) and the CD30 immunoreactions proved to be negative (Figs. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7). Computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest showed multiple pulmonary metastases. The patient was referred to our institution for further treatment, but he didn't attend to the scheduled consultation. Two and a half months later he developed headache, nausea and confusion. CT scan of the brain demonstrated two metastases with significant perifocal edema . On inspection, a skin metastasis was noted on one of the nipples. Abdominal ultrasound also showed a kidney and multiple hepatic metastases. The lungs appeared to be full of metastases and the area for ventilation seemed to be greatly reduced on chest x-ray. The β-hCG level proved to be 533,081.0 mIU/ml (normal: < 2.24 mIU/ ml), the AFP level was normal and the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level measured to be 2,918.0 U/l (normal range: 226–451 U/l). Due to intravenous dehydration the patient's condition improved. Chemotherapy was initiated urgently with the planned schedule of carboplatin area under the curve (AUC) 4.5 on the first day and etoposide 100 mg/m 2 for 5 days during the first cycle. On the third day following the start of treatment, febrile bronchitis occurred and the chemotherapy was interrupted. Despite antibiotic and expectorant treatment the patient developed shortness of breath, his sputum became slightly bloody and the oxygen saturation dropped to 78 %, but he remained hemodinamically stable without decrease in the hemoglobin level. He was transferred to the intensive care unit and mechanical ventilation was started. With continuation of the antibiotic and supportive treatment, his sputum cleared of blood and diminished. By prophylactic filgrastim administration significant neutropenia could be prevented and although grade 3 thrombocytopenia occurred, it resolved quickly, so the decision was made to complete the first cycle of chemotherapy. Subsequently the patient improved further and after two weeks it became possible to take him off the ventilator. Although there was no significant change on chest xray, the LDH level decreased to 851.0 U/L after four weeks, a control brain CT scan showed regression of the brain metastases  and also the size of the skin metastasis on the nipple diminished. Nevertheless four weeks after the start of chemotherapy, the patient was found dead in his room at night without any preceding signs. During autopsy hemorrhage was discovered in the pericardial cavity, which originated from a small subepicardial choriocarcinoma metastasis  and caused fatal pericardial tamponade. In addition to the Choriocarcinoma consists of two distinct cell populations, the multinucleated syncytiotrophoblasts (arrow) with purple cytoplasm are intermingled with the mononuclear cytotrophoblasts (asterisk) with eosinophilic cytoplasm (hematoxylin and eosin, 10×) There is moderate to strong staining of tumor cell cytoplasms with an immunostain for CK-7 (10×)previously known metastatic sites, peritoneal carcinomatosis was revealed. By histological examination most of the metastases found to be extensively necrotic with intralesional bleeding.
