Case A A 19-year-old moped user presented with a 3-day history of a painful perineal mass and no lower urinary tract symptoms, prior erectile dysfunction or priapism. He had engaged in vigorous sexual activity the night before the appearance of the mass and admitted misuse of anabolic steroids. Examination revealed a tender swelling over the proximal left corpus cavernosum with a flaccid distal penis. Admission blood tests and urinalysis were unremarkable apart from elevation of C-reactive protein at 91mg/l. Further investigation revealed hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (low testosterone, normal luteinising hormone and follicle stimulating hormone) secondary to anabolic steroid misuse. Subsequent magnetic resonance imaging (
showed thrombosis of the perineal part of the corpus cavernosum . The patient was managed conservatively (analgesia, 1 month of daily low molecular weight heparin injections and 3 months of aspirin 75mg daily). Repeat MRI at six weeks  showed significantly reduced thrombus volume. He subsequently reported resolution of the tender mass. However, detailed assessment using the IIEF-5 questionnaire revealed mild erectile dysfunction at 17 weeks and mild/moderate erectile dysfunction at 30 weeks . He reported no penile curvature as the result of PSTCC.
A 37-year-old without any prior erectile dysfunction presented with perineal pain and dysuria. He had had vigorous sexual intercourse the preceding day, having just returned home after a two-hour flight from a long cycling holiday. Examination revealed a tender mass in the perineum arising from the left corpus cavernosum with a distal flaccid penis. Blood tests were unremarkable. Urinalysis was negative. Pelvic radiography and Doppler ultrasonography of the scrotum, inguinal and perineal region detected no abnormality. He underwent MRI, which showed low signal intensity in the base of the left corpus cavernosum, in keeping with PSTCC . At the six-week follow-up review, the patient reported resolution of the painful perineal mass and return ofAnnsexual function. He scored 21 on the IIEF-5 at six weeks, indicating mild erectile dysfunction . This improved to a score of 25 at 14 weeks. He reported no penile curvature.
