A 55-year-old Chinese female with a history of hypertension was evaluated by the cardiologist. She had a normal pulse rate and a regular rhythm, and her blood pressure was 150/85 mmHg. No murmur or thrill was present. The chest radiograph was normal. Echocardiogram showed a mass in the right atrial free wall, measuring around 30 mm × 15 mm in diameter . She was admitted to our hospital for further evaluation. To obtain better definition of the mass, a 64-slice computed tomography (CT) was performed. An evaluation by means of CT demonstrated that the mass, which contained several thin septations, was consistent with lipoma. The mass occupied a part of the right atrial free wall . But, we were uncertain whether the fatty tumor was epicardial, intramural, or endocardial. Surgical treatment was indicated. After routine median sternotomy, the patient was started on moderate systemic hypothermic (34°C) cardiopulmonary bypass with cannulation of the aorta ascendens and both venae cavae. The superior vena cava cannula was inserted very high in the superior vena cava so as to be away from the tumor. The inferior vena cava cannula was also inserted very low near the diaphragm. To reduce the risk of complications, the patients underwent open heart operation on beating hearts. After the right atrium was opened, there was a large, yellowish rubbery mass (32 mm × 17 mm × 7 mm) constituting part of the free wall of the right atrium . After total tumor excision, the defect of atrial free wall was closed directly without any patch. Gross examination revealed a 32 mm × 17 mm × 7 mm mass comprised predominantly of mature adipose tissue of an intramyocardial lipoma . Histologically, the excised specimen showed many fatty structures lined by myocardium, suggesting that the tumor had indeed originated within the atrial wall .The patient recovered well on the ward and was discharged 8 days after the operation. On 1-year follow-up, the patient remained asymptomatic, with good clinical and echocardiography evaluations.
