A 75-year old male with a history of triple-vessel CABG in 1978 presented with shortness of breath and a mediastinal mass that was followed up conservatively for the preceding 2 years as a right atrial myxoma. Surgical resection of the mass was deferred owing to being high-risk patient with multiple comorbidities. On admission, transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed a 9.4 cm × 6.5 cm fixed extracardiac mass compressing the right ventricle with resultant functional tricuspid stenosis (mean gradient 10 mmHg) . Chest X-ray showed an enlarged cardiac silhouette with radiographic findings consistent with congestive heart failure . For better characterization of the mass, a non-contrast (due to impaired kidney functions) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study was pursued, which showed a 10.9 × 7.4 × 6.5 cm vascular mass in the atrioventricular groove with flow into the mass ( , Video 1). The diagnosis was suggested to be in favour of a thrombosed SVGPsA rather than an atrial myxoma. Cardiac catheterization showed a patent aneurysmal SVG to the right coronary artery (RCA) that did not appear to be filling the RCA, but contrast washed out of the graft into the mass . A decision was made for surgical resection of the mass and revascularization as well. The patient underwent groin exploration and then redosternotomy. Cardiopulmonary bypass was instituted through cannulation of the aorta and superior vena cava along with femoral vein cannulation. Upon incision of the mass, a giant thrombus was delivered . After complete excision of the SVGPsA, both ends of the graft were oversewn with pledgeted polypropylene 4-0 sutures. Revascularization was done with a new SVG to the posterior descending artery. The patient was weaned off cardiopulmonary bypass without difficulty and was transferred to the intensive care unit on minimal inotropic support. His postoperative course was uneventful and he was discharged on postoperative day 13. Pathological examination of the specimen demonstrated a 12.5 × 8.1 × 5.8 cm thrombus and calcified fibrous tissue consistent with SVGPsA.
