A 50-year-old Japanese woman had been well until one month before admission, when a fever, chill, general malaise, and anterior chest pain developed. Because several antibiotics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs did not relieve her symptoms, the patient was admitted to our hospital. Her medical history included smoking (8 cigarettes/day) and an active consumption of alcohol (20 g ethanol/day), a previous diagnosis of infantile asthma, and a history of drug allergy. On the physical examination, her blood pressure was 90/ 48 mmHg and equal in both arms, pulse rate 88 per minute, the temperature 38.1, and the cervical, supraclavicular and axillary lymph nodes were palpable with good mobility. Jugular vein distention, friction rub, diminished breath sounds over the lung, and lower leg edema were not revealed. The laboratory tests showed white blood cells of 11,840/μL, eosinophil 200/μL, an erythrocyte sedimentation rate 138 mm/h, C-reactive protein (CRP) concentration 10.02 mg/dL, serum amyloid A protein level 833 μg/mL, and soluble interleukin (IL)-2 receptor level 745 U/mL. IgG, IgA, and IgM levels were within the normal ranges (1,631, 199, and 93 mg/dL, respectively), however, the IgG4 and IgE levels were elevated (428 mg/dL and 1,765 IU/mL, respectively). The serum IL-6 concentration was 2.0 pg/mL (normal range: <4.0 pg/mL). All the following laboratory investigations were negative or normal: chest radiography, electrocardiogram, a blood culture, procalcitonin level, the interferon gamma release assay, β-D-glucan level, angiotensin-converting enzyme concentration, rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies and a serological test for hepatitis A, B and C viruses. Echocardiography revealed pericardial thickening. The CT scan images showed a small amount of left pleural effusion, mediastinal lymphadenopathy , and diffuse pericardial thickening . PET/CT imaging showed a patchy 18 F-FDG uptake in the pericardium and a dense 18 FFDG uptake in the mediastinal lymph nodes . A video-assisted thoracoscopic biopsy of 18 F-FDG uptakepositive mediastinal lymph nodes was preferred to open thoracotomy for an extensive biopsy of the pericardium and lymph nodes. A histological and immunohistochemical examination of the biopsy specimen revealed an increase in the number of IgG4-positive plasma cells (>100 per highpower field), an IgG4 + /IgG + plasma cells ratio >50%, similar to IgG4-related lymphadenopathy type II (follicular hyperplasia)  . However, storiform fibrosis, obliterative phlebitis, eosinophilic infiltration and immunoglobulin light-chain restriction were not observed. According to these findings, we tentatively diagnosed the patient with IgG4-RD using a diagnostic algorithm of comprehensive diagnostic criteria for IgG4-RD (21). We then treated the patient with 30 mg (0.6 mg/kg) per day of oral prednisolone (21). Her symptoms immediately improved and the serum IgG4 levels decreased to 134 mg/dL after one month of treatment. Furthermore, the 18 F-FDG uptakes in the pericardium and mediastinal lymph nodes were dramatically diminished  as diffuse pericardial thickening on the CT scan images. Recurrence of the disease was not observed during the 28-month follow-up.
