A 74-year-old man with a past medical history of hypertension was referred to our cardiology department for evaluation of an asymptomatic mass in the left ventricle, which had been found incidentally in the course of routine transthoracic echocardiography. The findings from a physical examination, routine laboratory studies, electrocardiography and a chest X-ray were unremarkable. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a mobile, spherical, pedunculated mass. Transesophageal echocardiography confirmed that the mass was 2.1×2.1 cm in size and that it was located at the mitral valve chordae with no mitral regurgitation ( , B). Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated the mass to have increased signal intensity on T2 weighted short-inversion-time inversion-recovery (STIR) black blood imaging and ring-enhanced signal on T1 weighted delayed enhancement imaging following the administration of gadolinium ( , D). Computed tomography of the chest and abdomen and magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed no signs of embolism. No feeding arteries arising from the coronary arteries were visualized on coronary angiography. The patient was referred to the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery. The patient underwent the surgical resection of the mass under cardiopulmonary bypass. The heart was exposed through a median sternotomy and the mitral valve was exposed via a superior transseptal approach. The mass was observed to be adherent to the anterior mitral valve leaflet chordae at its junction with the posterior papillary muscle. The tumor was attached to a single secondary chordae, without involving the mitral leaflets . A complete tumor resection was performed and mitral valve preservation was achieved. A postoperative transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) showed the absence of residual tumor and normal mitral valvular function. There were no findings of mitral valvular regurgitation. The resected tumor was round and measured 2.1×2.1 cm in size. There was no evidence of a thrombus on its surface . The mass was diagnosed as a papillary fibroelastoma based on the histopathologic examination . The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged on postoperative day 9.
