The patient initially continued to have signifi cant hemoptysis that gradually improved but lasted for a total of 9 days. The patient's hemoglobin level was at its lowest on hospital day 5 of the second admission (9.1 g/dL). Pulmonology, nephrology, and rheumatology consults were obtained. Results of pulmonary function tests and a ventilation/ perfusion scan were normal. Flexible bronchoscopy showed normal anatomy with no acute hemorrhage, but the bronchoalveolar lavage specimen was noted to be bloody. Cytology showed low infl ammatory profi le (cell differential: 80% macrophages, 20% neutrophils, <1% lymphocytes, and <1% eosinophils) and 30% hemosiderinladen macrophages. Results of respiratory culture, fungal cultures, acid-fast stain, and viral polymerase chain reaction were negative. On day 3 of admission, the patient was noted to have increased lower extremity edema with worsening hematuria and proteinuria (protein-creatinine ratio increased to 8.9 mg/mg), an uptrending serum creatinine value (1.07 mg/dL from a baseline of 0.6 mg/dL), and a serum albumin level of 2.2 g/dL.
The evaluation for pulmonary-renal syndromes in our patient was negative for antinuclear antibodies, antiglomerular basement membrane, and antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies. A serum protein panel revealed normal complement levels, low transferrin, albumin, and IgM levels. Sinus CT scan was normal. A lung high-resolution CT scan ( revealed a patchy mixed ground-glass appearance, concerning for infl ammatory process versus diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. An echocardiogram (performed to evaluate for the new murmur on presentation) was normal, and the murmur was attributed to anemia. Due to the severity of the kidney involvement characterized by ne phrotic syndrome and elevated creatinine levels, the decision was made to proceed with renal biopsy. Results of the biopsy showed necrotizing segmental glomerulonephritis with strong positive IgA and C3 staining consistent with HSP nephritis. The fi nal diagnosis was pulmonary hemorrhage associated with HSP.
: The patient was started on pulse intravenous steroid therapy at 1 g daily of methylprednisolone for a total of 5 days. He was then switched to oral prednisone 60 mg every other day for 6 months. Cyclophosphamide therapy was initiated at 750 mg/m 2. The fi rst dose was given during his hospital stay and continued monthly for a total of 6 months. The patient had complete resolution of hemoptysis, abdominal pain, arthralgias, purpura, edema, and gross hematuria before discharge on hospital day 13. The patient was followed by nephrology and rheumatology for immunosuppressive therapy. There have been no reports of hemoptysis on his follow-up visits after discharge from the hospital.
Conclusions: Pulmonary hemorrhage represents a rare but life-threatening complication of HSP. Respiratory symptoms in a patient with HSP should raise suspicion, especially if associated with a drop in hemoglobin level. Abnormal fi ndings on CXR have been found in all the reported cases. Pulmonary hemorrhage indicates severe vasculitis and requires aggressive and early treatment. The mortality rate has decreased with the use of intravenous corticosteroids and immunosuppressive therapy. Early recognition of this uncommon complication of HSP by the pediatric hospitalist is crucial to prevent severe complications.
