A 6-year-old boy presented to the emergency department with a 3-month history of intermittent abdominal pain associated with meals. His father reported that the child had experienced a 10-lb weight loss during this period of time. Initially, the patient was seen at an outside hospital and was diagnosed with acute appendicitis. He had an uneventful laparoscopic appendectomy, but pathologic examination revealed no inflammatory changes in the appendix. On the second post-operative day, his serum lipase was elevated at 1412 IU/L consistent with pancreatitis, and he was treated with a low-fat diet. Two months later, the patient continued to have intermittent episodes of significant post-prandial epigastric abdominal pain. Upon examination, the patient was in no distress, afrebrile, and vital signs were within the normal range for his age. His abdomen was soft and non-tender. The patient had a white blood cell count of 13.3 K/uL (ref 4.5–13.5 K/uL), hemoglobin concentration of 12.2 g/dL (ref 11.5–15.5 g/dL), and a serum lipase of 631 U/L (ref 73–393 U/L). The workup for the underlying cause of pancreatitis was negative. Duplex ultrasound (US) demonstrated a normal gallbladder without gallstones and a pseudoaneurysm adjacent to the pancreatic head with surrounding heterogeneous material . Computed tomography (CT) showed a 1-cm pseudoaneurysm anterior to the pancreatic head adjacent to the gastroduodenal artery (GDA) ( , b). There was no evidence of a pancreatic pseudocyst. The patient was referred to interventional radiology for an urgent diagnostic angiogram with embolization. Via right common femoral artery access, a selective celiac arteriogram, coil embolization of a GDA branch (superior pancreaticoduodenal artery), and completion angiogram were performed ( , b). The patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout the hospitalization. The hemoglobin concentration remained stable, serum lipase normalized, and a repeat duplex US showed no evidence of PSA. The patient was discharged home 2 days following the procedure.
