In August 1998, a 66-year-old woman experienced a cold which thereafter developed into asthma. In October 1998, she began treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (fluticasone) and β2 agonists (salbutamol). She subsequently began treatment with anti-leukotriene agents (montelukast), which were able to control her asthma attacks. In July 2006, an elevated number of eosinophils (3,700/ μL; 37%) was detected in the patient's blood, resulting in symptoms that included pain, numbness, imperception in both legs, and a painful erythema nodosum in the right forearm and left femur. EGPA was suspected, and the patient was admitted to the Department of Allergology and Rheumatology at the Japanese Red Cross Medical Center. Nerve Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Toho University Sakura Medical Center, Japan, Department of Clinical Laboratory, Japanese Red Cross Medical Center, Japan, Clinical Laboratory Testing Business, Clinical Laboratory Testing Division, Product Planning and Development Division, SRL, Inc., Japan, Department of Pathology, Japanese Red Cross Medical Center, Japan, Okamura Otorhinolaryngology Clinic, and skin biopsies revealed eosinophil infiltration, and the patient was diagnosed with EGPA according to the asthma, the high level of circulating eosinophils, onset of neuritis, and histology findings. Following steroid pulse therapy, she was treated with an initial dose of 40 mg of prednisolone, which ameliorated her symptoms. The steroid dosage was then gradually tapered; she exhibited a favorable progression while receiving 1 mg/day of prednisolone and 200 mg/day of clarithromycin for her respiratory symptom, which was initiated in September 2008. In July 2010, the patient complained of symptoms indicative of upper airway inflammation. The chest radiographic findings indicated pneumonia, and she was once again admitted to the Department of Allergology and Rheumatology. Computed tomography (CT) of the paranasal sinus revealed mild sinusitis , and a biopsy of the paranasal sinus mucosa was performed. The biopsy findings revealed inflammatory cell infiltration consisting primarily of eosinophils, similar to the patient's previous skin and nerve biopsies. The patient was diagnosed with chronic bronchiectasis and EGPA, with a comorbid bacterial infection that was subsequently improved after the administration of antibacterial agents (cefepime). At this time, the anti-leukotriene medication was discontinued, and the patient was started on suplatast tosilate and procaterol hydrochloride. She continued taking the 1 mg/day of prednisolone. In August 2013, the patient presented with coughing, expectoration, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea, and mild respiratory distress. Chest radiography and CT scans revealed infiltrative shadows in the lungs , and a marked increase in the number of circulating eosinophils was observed. The patient was readmitted to the Department of Allergology and Rheumatology to undergo detailed examination and treatment. Physical findings were normal except mild wheezing during forced expiration and the presence of subjective numbness in the left common fibular nerve region.
The laboratory results were as follows: leukocytes: 5,900/ μL, neutrophils: 2,020/μL (32.0%), lymphocytes: 1,390/μL (22.5%), monocytes: 220/μL (4.0%), basophils: 50/μL (1.5%), eosinophils: 2,260/μL (33.5%), erythrocytes: 373/ μL, hemoglobin: 11.6 g/dL, hematocrit: 34.3%, platelets: 308,000/μL, C-reactive protein: 0.20 mg/dL, aspartate transaminase: 21 IU/L, alanine transaminase: 19 IU/L, lactate dehydrogenase: 212 IU/L, total protein: 6.8 g/dL, albumin: 4.0 g/dL, blood urea nitrogen: 13 mg/dL, creatinine: 0.49 mg/ dL, IgG: 1,166 mg/dL, IgA: 223 mg/dL, IgM: 102 mg/dL, and IgE: 7,517 IU/mL. The results of the radioallergosorbent test (RAST) were Candida: 67 IU/mL, Aspergillus: 11.8 IU/mL, Alternaria: 48.1 IU/mL, house dust 1.1 IU/mL, and mites: 0.76 IU/mL. Proteinase-3 ANCA and MPO-ANCA were negative. Other ANCA, such as anti-lactoferrin antibody and anti-αantigen antibody, could not be evaluated. A paranasal sinus CT scan revealed bilateral sinusitis. In addition, sputum cytology and nasal scrape cytology revealed increased levels of eosinophils. Therefore, we concluded that the eosinophil infiltration had occurred in the lungs and paranasal sinus. However, no exacerbation of the neurological symptoms was observed. The patient subsequently had a positive precipitation reaction for Aspergillus, and we considered this episode to be a recurrence of EGPA with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. The patient's expectoration and coughing symptoms were spontaneously resolved, and her eosinophil count and her level of serous IgE mildly decreased (eosinophils: 1,320/μL, 22.5%; IgE: 5,697 IU/mL). Therefore, we proceeded to follow up with the patient only at the treatment appointments and did not prescribe any additional treatments (e.g., increased steroid dose). The patient was discharged in September 2013 and is currently undergoing follow-up care on an outpatient basis.
