The repeat CT was read as normal by an on-call radiology fellow. The child's laboratories revealed a normal white blood cell (WBC) count 9000/µL, hematocrit 46 000/µL, erythrocyte sedimentation rate 4 mm/h, C-reactive protein 0.2 mg/L, creatinine kinase 56 IU/L, and negative porphyrins. His complete metabolic panel was normal except for mildly elevated glucose of 120 mg/dL and total bilirubin level at 1.6 mg/dL. Urinalysis was normal. The patient had decreased appetite and fl uid intake, so he was started on intravenous fl uids. He was given intravenous morphine and ondansetron for pain control and worsening nausea. Physical examination of the patient's abdomen was negative for Rovsing, Obturator, and Psoas signs positive for pain with movement, such as positionalVOLUME 5 @BULLET ISSUE 2 www.hospitalpediatrics.org changes, and severe tenderness to palpation without rebound tenderness in the right lower quadrant (RLQ). His testicular examination was normal. He remained very still in the bed to avoid movement that exacerbated his pain. The patient's cardiopulmonary examination was normal. Because of the focal and unremitting nature of his pain, surgery colleagues continued to feel that his presentation was consistent with evolving appendicitis and ultrasound examination of the RLQ was performed in the interest of reducing radiation exposure. Ultrasound reaffi rmed a normal appendix and no fl uid collections.
: Ketorolac and cyclobenzaprine were added to the patient's pain medication regimen because of continued pain. In discussion with the pediatric neurology service, it was determined that the pain was not consistent with a neurologic cause because the patient had normal strength, tone, no loss of continence, and no sensation abnormalities. Psychiatric diagnoses were considered; however, the patient's physical examination consistently demonstrated tenderness with palpation that would wake the patient from sleep, limitation of the patient's movement due to pain, and tenderness to light pressure, suggesting muscle involvement. The pediatric gastroenterology service did not think the pain typical of an ulcer or intestinal problem. Given the sudden onset of severe pain with movement, they suggested the diagnosis of omental infarction.
The patient failed to demonstrate improvement in his pain or ability to move 5 days after admission. After review of the clinical course, an abdominal MRI was performed. The MRI demonstrated extensive edema of the subcutaneous fat of the trunk. Mild enlargement of the right rectus abdominus muscle was noted, without well-defi ned hematoma formation. Increased signal intensity was identifi ed within the right paracolic fat, as well as abnormal enhancement after contrast administration, which suggested omental infarction or epiploic appendagitis (
. The abdominal CT was then reevaluated by a senior pediatric radiologist, and an oval-shaped focus of fat density with a thin peripheral hyperattenuating rim and central dot, surrounded by infl ammatory change, adjacent to and abutting the ascending colon, was retrospectively identifi ed (
. Epiploic appendagitis was then the diagnosis, primarily because of the typical imaging appearance and anatomic correlation with the site of the patient's pain.
: Cross-sectional radiologic imaging (CT, MRI) was key to the diagnosis of epiploic appendagitis in our patient, although ultrasound, with subsequent MRI in some cases, should be the fi rst-line imaging modality in most patients. This patient was transitioned from opioids to acetaminophen and naproxen for pain control, and over the course of 8 days after his injury, his symptoms signifi cantly improved.
