A 71-year-old man with no medical history underwent elective EVAS for a 5.1-cm asymptomatic infrarenal aortic aneurysm. The patient received 2 g of cefazolin antibiotic prophylaxis. Two 140-mm-long Nellix endosystems wereused with 68 mL of polymer instilled to an endobag pressure of 190 mm Hg. Routine postoperative computed tomography angiography (CTA) at 1 month showed complete sealing without signs of complications . After 7 months, the patient was readmitted due to fever, general discomfort, and loss of appetite. The general practitioner had already initiated ciprofloxacin suspecting a urinary tract infection. Laboratory tests showed an increased C-reactive protein (CRP) level of 194 mg/L, but urinary and blood cultures remained negative. Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) showed a focal high uptake of the native aortic wall with a standard uptake value (SUV) of 7.2. This projection was isolated to the aortic wall without increased uptake of the endosystems . Under the diagnosis of periaortitis, the patient was treated with high-dose steroids, which initially led to clinical and laboratory improvement. However, 1 month later, the patient presented at the emergency department with acute abdominal pain. CTA demonstrated an aortic rupture , and an emergent laparotomy was performed. The patient received 2 g cefazolin before surgery. It was decided to explant the Nellix prosthesis with temporary suprarenal clamping. After opening of the aneurysm sac, the graft could be easily removed without extensive dissection of the juxtarenal aorta since the stents are not fixed to the aortic wall ( .) Subsequently, the clamp was placed below the renal arteries, and the sac was debrided. Perfusion was restored with a polyester bifurcated aortic graft (Intergard; InterVascular/Maquet, Rastatt, Germany), which was wrapped in omentum. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged at day 6. Although intraoperative cultures of the aortic wall remained negative, antibiotics were continued for 4 weeks. At 1-month follow-up, the patient was in good clinical condition without signs of persistent infection. In another case, an 83-year-old man with a medical history of myocardial infarction treated by coronary bypass surgery presented with an asymptomatic, 63-mm infrarenal AAA suitable for endovascular repair. In addition, a malignancy of thelower lobe of the right lung was identified. Additional PET scans showed the suspected malignant lesion as well as focal FDG uptake of the right side of the aneurysm wall with a SUV of 9.7. The lung process was staged as T1N0M0, and biopsies confirmed the diagnosis of a squamous cell carcinoma. There were no clinical signs of intra-abdominal infection. After multidisciplinary discussion it was decided to exclude the aortic aneurysm first using the Nellix endosystem and to perform a video-assisted thoracoscopic lobectomy afterward. After informed consent, the patient participated in the EVASFORWARD GLOBAL registry. Two 170-mm-long Nellix endosystems were used with 148 mL of polymer injected with final endobag pressure of 250 mm Hg to acquire proper sealing with no signs of endoleak . The patient received 2 g cefazolin before surgery and 3 1-g doses during the first 24 hours. The patient was discharged in good clinical condition on the second postoperative day. A duplex ultrasound showed complete exclusion of the AAA, without endoleak. After 6 weeks, the patient underwent an uncomplicated lobectomy and was discharged at the third postoperative day. Four months after the EVAS procedure, the patient presented to the emergency room with abdominal pain, fever,fatigue, loss of appetite, and weight loss. Laboratory tests showed increased infection markers with a CRP level of 276 mg/L. Additional PET imaging showed an increased FDG uptake along the aneurysm wall, with a significant increased uptake at the distal part of the aneurysm around the aortic bifurcation and left internal iliac artery . There was no increased uptake around the Nellix endosystems. CTA showed exclusion of the aneurysm without signs of endoleak. The patient was treated with intravenous antibiotics (amoxicillin). After 12 days of treatment, the patient developed acute hematemesis without hemodynamic instability. CTA imaging now showed an aortoduodenal fistula originating from the infected aneurysm. The Nellix devices had migrated and displaced, with an evident endoleak ( and D). An emergency laparotomy was performed, and the fistula of the duodenum was identified and sutured. Subsequently, the aneurysm was opened during temporary suprarenal clamping, and the Nellix endosystems were explanted without issue. The aorta was clamped below the renal arteries, and the aneurysm was resected and debrided. The aorta was reconstructed with a rifampicin-soaked, silver-coated, 16×8-cm Intergard prosthesis (InterVascular/Maquet). The bifurcated prosthesis was wrapped with the greater omentum. Cultures of the infiltrated tissue showed growth of Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis (ESBL positive), Staphylococcus epidermidis, and Candida albicans. Subsequent intravenous antibiotic treatment was planned according to culture. Despite prolonged and rigorous antibiotic treatment, the patient maintained a septic profile and developed multiple organ failure. After 2 months in the intensive care unit, the patient was discharged to the surgical ward. One week later, the patient developed respiratory distress and fever under continuous antibiotic treatment. Despite supportive therapy the patient did not recover and died 7 months after the primary Nellix implantation. The patient's family did not consent for autopsy. The explanted device was tested by the company and showed no signs of device failure. The graft and endobag were intact, and the solid polymer was stable.Endograft infection following EVAR is a rare complication, with an overall incidence as low as 0.2%, which is lower than the reported infection rates of conventional prosthetic grafts (range 0.5%–3%). 2 However, the true incidence might be higher as this devastating complication might be underreported. The most frequent causative organisms described in the literature are S aureus species, suggesting infections that mostly occur from contamination at the time of the intervention, while S. epidermidis is more prominent in late onset infections. 7 Secondary endograft infections can occur from bacterial translocation from remote infective sources, hematogenous seeding, or due to aortoenteric fistulas. 8,9 Despite negative blood cultures and no suspicion on the PET scan, a secondary infection from a remote source cannot be ruled out in our first case, while the second infection was clearly caused by an aortoenteric fistula. Although no strict criteria are available, the diagnosis of graft infection is usually made based on clinical assessment, supported by blood tests and radiologic and microbiological investigations. Early symptoms are usually systemic, with fever and loss of appetite, but also include abdominal discomfort or endograft dysfunction. Patients with low-grade infections may also present with signs, such as false aneurysm formation, gastrointestinal fistula, or hydronephrosis. Radiologic studies are an important adjunct in the diagnosis of infection, and often CTA is the initial test to confirm the diagnosis, as it usually reveals typical inflammatory changes surrounding the graft or gas within the native aneurysm sac. 10 Additionally, FDG-PET and gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography can be very helpful for the diagnosis. 11 FDG-PET is sensitive for most inflammatory processes, and it has proven to be more accurate compared to CTA for the diagnosis of graft infections. FDG-PET is therefore routinely used in our institution in all patients suspected of endograft infection. 11 For example, in the first case, FDG-PET demonstrated periaortitis that was not revealed on the initial CT scan. Nevertheless, the use of FDG-PET in the diagnosis of an infected aneurysm may be complicated by an increased physiologic FDG uptake in the aneurysm wall compared to normal aortic tissue. 12 The physiologic inflammatory response of the aneurysm wall following the pressureguided EVAS technique is unknown. Endografts may provoke a foreign body reaction that can result in periaortitis. 13 An exaggerated inflammatory response to advanced atherosclerosis has been thought to be the main pathogenic process of periaortitis, which was suspected in the first case. The increased pressure on the aortic wall, induced by the polymer-filled endobags, might be an added stimulus for localized aortic wall ischemia and may result in an increased inflammatory response. Although it is speculative, the high polymer fill pressure used in the second patient might have contributed to the
