A 41-year-old woman was admitted to our institution with a history of headache, nausea, and impaired vision over the previous 2 months. She had never been diagnosed with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or an autoimmune disorder. She had no previous history of pregnancy or the use of oral contraceptives. Her severe headache and nausea were initially diagnosed as a migraine by her personal physician, for which she was medicated with non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs, tryptamine sulfate, and valproic acid. However, her headache and nausea did not improve; rather, they continued to occur every day for 6 weeks and she eventually became unable to ambulate. She noticed the visual impairment 1 week before admission and consulted an ophthalmologist 1 day before admission. An ophthalmologic examination revealed papillary edema without bleeding. She was thus referred and admitted to our department. On admission (2 months after the onset), the patient reported that her spasmodic headache felt as though her bilateral temples were pierced with a lance and accompanied by persistent nausea. During the peak of the headache, she could not move her body at all and she could not tolerate bright light. She was confined to her bed until the following day, when the headache slightly lessened. She described the visual impairment as objects in her visual field being blurry and outlined. She was fully conscious and her vital signs were as follows: blood pressure, 157/102 mmHg; pulse, 97 beats/min; and body temperature, 37.2. Her physical examination revealed no skin lesions, including a butterfly rash, or joint swelling or deformation. Her body mass index was 39.8. Neurological examinations revealed bilateral abducens palsy. The peripheral blood examination results are summarized in An elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein level, and HbA1c level were observed. The activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) was 82.7 seconds (within the normal range: 20-40 sec). Anti-nuclear antibodies including anti-ds DNA and Sm antibody were negative. The levels of serum complement C3, C 4, and immune complex of the C1 solid phase assay were within the normal ranges or higher than normal. A lumbar puncture yielded clear cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), but with 480 mmH2O opening pressure. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium enhancement showed no obvious brain lesions, while magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) revealed normal arterial formation and no stenosis or obstruction. We initially diagnosed the patient with idiopathic intracranial hypertension and checked her plasma level of vitamin A. We recommended that she lose weight. Furthermore, to reduce the intracranial pressure, she was administered glycerol and acetazolamide and underwent repeated lumbar puncture. The prolonged APTT led to an investigation of her plasma concentration of antiphospholipid antibody including lupus anticoagulant (LA) ( , which revealed that the LA was 7.3 seconds (within the normal range: ! 6.3 sec) and the coagulation time before and after neutralizing with phospholipid were 58.5 and 51.2 seconds, respectively. The patient's headache and visual impairment did not improve after 1 month (3 months after onset), thus a second brain MRI was performed . Diffusion-weighted imaging revealed high-intensity in the frontoparietal subcortical veins, possibly suggesting venous thrombus in the anterior and middle segments of the superior sagittal sinus (SSS). Magnetic resonance venography (MRV) described a partial loss of flow in the anterior to posterior segment of the SSS . The plasma level of D-dimer was 0.5 μg/mL at this time; however, the venous phase on an internal carotidG H I angiogram  showed thrombosis in the SSS. We diagnosed the patient with CVST-induced secondary intracranial hypertension and performed intravenous injections of heparin (10,000 units daily) for 14 days followed by warfarin therapy with a target INR from 2.0 to 3.0. Her symptoms including headache, nausea, and abducens palsy gradually improved. Approximately 3 months after admission (5 months after the onset), the patient suddenly presented with clumsy thumb and a sensory disturbance in her left arm. Brain MRI showed an acute ischemic stroke lesion in the right frontoparietal lobe  and watershed area , while MRA  disclosed stenosis at the right proximal middle cerebral artery (MCA). The findings of the Holter electrocardiogram, transthoracic or transesophageal cardiac ultrasonography (US), carotid arterial US, and lower extremity venous US were normal. We diagnosed the patient with arterial thrombosis and low-dose aspirin (100 mg daily) was started. Intravenous heparin (10,000 units daily) was administered during the acute phase of stroke. In addition, the time in therapeutic range (TTR) of warfarin was approximately 50% at this time, and we adjusted the dosage of warfarin to elevate the TTR. However, brain computed tomography performed 3 weeks after the onset of the ischemic stroke revealed an intracranial hemorrhage within the same region as the stroke . Furthermore, the plasma LA level examined at >12 weeks after the first measurement was 17.2 seconds, while the coagulation time before and after neutralizing with phospholipid were 75.6 and 58.4 seconds, respectively. We therefore diagnosed the patient withbleeding, we administered rivaroxaban (15 mg daily) as a substitute for warfarin after obtaining her consent to use a drug which builds no consensus to prevent venous thrombosis due to APS. Low-dose aspirin was continued, and prednisolone (50 mg daily) was added to preclude cerebral infarction by inhibiting the LA activity and gradually reduced the dosage. The CSF pressure decreased to 230 mmH2O. A repeated ophthalmological examination revealed the disappearance of the papillary edema. After 5 months of rehabilitation, the patient was discharged from our institution with a modified rank of 1. Approximately 1 year after the onset, follow-up brain MRI performed on an outpatient basis showed partial recanalization of the SSS, especially in the posterior segment , and no new ischemic lesions were observed. MRA indicated no stenotic lesions in the right proximal MCA . The LA level decreased to 4.5 seconds. The patient had no recurrence of the headache or visual manifestations and became independent with only a mild impairment of her left hand. The above clinical course is summarized in .
