Significance/uniqueness of case This case studies a patient who presented to the emergency department with near syncope caused by extrapericardial cardiac tamponade sixteen days following a Wolf Mini-Maze procedure. To date there are no reports in English language medical literature, as accessed through PubMed, of extra-pericardial cardiac tamponade associated with any cardiothoracic surgical intervention. Extra-pericardial cardiac tamponade is a rare adverse event which has previously only been reported in association with blunt force trauma and the repair of hiatal hernias . There have been no reported cases of extra-pericardial cardiac tamponade due to hematoma formation following surgery.
The patient is a 60 year old Physician Assistant who is a male, a non-smoker, has mild alcohol intake, a longstanding history of essential hypertension, a BMI of 29.2, and a one month history of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter. He had a catheter ablation for atrial flutter two months prior to his MINI procedure. He underwent the MINI procedure with no early postoperative complications. Immediately postoperatively, his hemoglobin was 14.1, hematocrit was 43.9, and INR (International normalized ratio) was 1.1 (Therapeutic range 2–3 ). His 24 h stay in ICU, followed by a 72 h stay in cardiac step down unit, was without incident and he was discharged on 5 mg Warfarin QD with instructions to return for regular INR monitoring. Upon discharge from the hospital, the patient was able to gradually resume his previous exercise regimen, including a daily two mile walk, with minimal loss of exercise tolerance. His INR was routinely monitored and was found to be 1.9 on the sixth postoperative day. On the tenth postoperative day, his INR was found to be elevated at 3.6, so his dosage of warfarin was decreased to 2.5 mg QD. His diet had not changed prior to or following this change in INR. During the evening of the fifteenth postoperative day, the patient noted mild dyspnea upon exertion and he needed to slow down during his daily exercise. On the morning of sixteenth postoperative day, upon walking approximately 50 feet within his home the patient experienced near syncope. The patient's wife, a retired pediatric Registered Nurse, was unable to auscultate a blood pressure with him in the standing or sitting position, but was able to palpate systolic blood pressure of 88 mmHg in the standing position. Upon auscultation of the patient's chest, she detected a cardiac rub across the precordium accompanied by muffled heart sounds. His wife recommended ambulance transport but the patient refused, stating that he felt that the ambulance would be unable to find their rural home. His wife rapidly transported him in a private vehicle to the emergency department (ED) of a Level II trauma center.
