A 59-year-old smoker with arterial hypertension and dyslipidemia presented with a 6.5-mm TAAA ( andand then antegrade through the Viabahn into the celiac trunk . Computed tomography angiography (CTA) showed the aortic stent-grafts implanted at the thoracoabdominal region, with a Viabahn covered stent extending from the ostium of the celiac trunk across the aorta (at the distal edge of the Zenith extension) to the space defined between the right posterolateral aneurysm sac wall and the exterior surface of the Zenith extension (Figures 1B, 1B′, and 2). Initially, a conservative approach was chosen; however, CTA at 3-month follow-up demonstrated an increase in the aneurysm diameter from 6.5 to 7 cm. The multidisciplinary team opted for a plan to percutaneously close the endoleak while maintaining celiac trunk perfusion. Using a transfemoral approach, the Viabahn was perforated using a Brockenbrough needle . An Asahi Miraclebros 3 coronary wire (Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA, USA) that had 20 mm from its distal floppy end removed was advanced into the aneurysm sac. Using an over-the-wire balloon, the Miraclebros 3 was exchanged for a Hi-Torque Iron Man guidewire (Abbott Vascular). After several dilations of the Viabahn covered stent with semi-and noncompliant coronary balloons, a Storq wire (Cordis Corporation, Bridgewater, NJ, USA) was advanced into the aneurysm sac. An 8-mm peripheral balloon was advanced over the Storq wire through the opening created at the caudal side of the Viabahn and inflated to 8 atm. This maneuver facilitated perfusion of the celiac trunk directly from the aorta and provided access to the proximal end of the Viabahn (facing the aneurysm sac) for delivery of an Amplatzer Type II Vascular Plug (St. Jude Medical, St. Paul, MN, USA) to occlude the outflow from the endoleak into the Viabahn. The Storq wire was subsequently repositioned distally in the celiac trunk, and a self-expanding 12×40-mm Absolute stent (Abbott Vascular) was deployed to maintain the caudal opening of the Viabahn. Subsequently, another Amplatzer Vascular Plug II was deployed at the gutter of the endoleak (at the side of the Viabahn) after crossing it with the Storq wire. At the end of the procedure, control angiography revealed only minor residual type Ib endoleak, while good perfusion of the celiac trunk was established through the caudal opening of the Viabahn ( , 1C′, and 4). CTA follow-up at 6 months  demonstrated successful exclusion of the TAAA with no residual endoleak and excellent perfusion of the celiac trunk.
