A 60-year-old male with no significant past medical history presented to the emergency department in an outside hospital with persistent abdominal bloating, constipation, and acute abdominal pain that started in the periumbilical region and spread diffusely all over the abdomen. The patient denied any diarrhea, bloody stools, fever, or similar pain in the past. Initial abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan revealed acute PV, superior mesenteric vein (SMV), and inferior mesenteric vein (IMV) thrombosis ( and B). There was also significant bowel wall thickening with decreased bowel wall enhancement and minimal mesenteric fat stranding suggestive of bowel wall edema and impending venous infarction in the distal duodenum and proximal jejunum . The patient was started on anticoagulants using intravenous heparin and mild pain control using morphine sulfate. During course of his hospital stay over the following 4 days, he experienced worsening symptoms, with increase in the severity of the pain, which became associated with rebound tenderness and guarding. This prompted the clinical team to order a repeat CT, which showed no resolution of the previous CT findings. At this point, the patient was transferred to our institution for further evaluation and management. Complete blood count showed decreased red blood cell (RBC) count, hemoglobin, and hematocrit levels. The patient underwent hypercoagulability workup (protein C, protein S, antithrombin III, lupus anticoagulant, and activated protein C resistance), which was normal. Due to the impending bowel infarction and the lack of regression of the PVT on standard anticoagulation therapy, a multidisciplinary consensus was to refer the patient to our Interventional Radiology department for endovascular management of his PVT. A preliminary ultrasound and Color Doppler ultrasound was performed to assess the patency of the PV, and the results confirmed PVT. While attempting to percutaneously access the thrombosed right PV, a bile duct was entered serendipitously, and percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram was performed. This was used as a roadmap to guide the access needle into the thrombosed PV, which was anatomically located posterior and medial to it . After accessing the right PV, a 7F sheath (Pinnacle; Terumo, Tokyo, Japan) was introduced, and 4F Bernestein catheter (Slipcath; Cook, Bloomington, Indiana) was manipulated through the thrombosed PV into SMV. Venogram of the SMV and PV demonstrated extensive filling defects within the proximal SMV extending into the main PV and its right and left branches consistent with PV and SMV thrombosis. The distal tributaries of the SMV were patent . Aspiration thrombectomy was then attempted using an 8F-guiding catheter (Envoy; Cordis, Miami, Florida), and multiple thrombi were aspirated but with unsatisfactory results on follow-up venogram. Therefore, we decided to attempt ultrasound-accelerated thrombolysis. A 12-cm ultrasoundaccelerated infusion catheter (EKOS endowave system; Covidien, Mansfield, Massachusetts) was positioned such that the infusion length containing the ultrasound probe spans the . A 60-year-old male presenting with acute abdominal pain and bloating. A, Contrast-enhanced CT scan of the abdomen shows a thrombus in main portal vein and its right branch (arrow). B, Another image from the same CT study showing distended superior and inferior mesenteric veins by intraluminal thrombus filling their lumens (arrows). C, Coronal reconstructed images showing thrombosis of the portal vein (arrow) as well as significant bowel wall thickening with decreased bowel wall enhancement in the distal duodenum and proximal jejunum (arrowheads), suggesting bowel wall edema and impending venous infarction. CT indicates computed tomography. . The right bile duct was serendipitously accessed, and cholangiogram was performed (arrowheads) to guide access to the thrombosed portal vein. The tip of the Chiba needle (small arrow) is seen in the thrombosed portal vein (large arrows) that is located posterior and medial to the common bile duct. SMV to the right PV. Thrombolytic agent (recombinant tissue plasminogen activator ; Activase; Genentech, San Fransisco, California) was then infused through the EKOS catheter at a rate of 1 mg/h for 24 hours. Heparin was administered through the sidearm of the sheath at a rate of 500 units/h for 24 hours. The patient was brought back to our angiosuite the following day, and a follow-up venogram through a 4F Berenstein catheter placed in the SMV demonstrated resolution of the thrombus in the PV and its branches with residual thrombus in the proximal SMV, resulting in narrowing of that segment . Pressure measurement was then obtained in the SMV distal to the narrowed segment. Angioplasty of this stenotic segment was achieved using a 5-mm, followed by a 7-mm, and finally a 10-mm angioplasty balloon (Dorado; Bard Peripheral Vascular, Tempe, Arizona). Follow-up venogram demonstrated no residual stenosis in the SMV and a reduction in the pressure in the distal SMV from 33 to 26 mm Hg. Small residual clots were still noted in the proximal SMV and the main PV . The Berenstein catheter was used to catheterize the SV. Venography revealed almost complete occlusion of the SV with tiny residual patent channel and dilated IMV that demonstrated retrograde flow . A 12-cm EKOS infusion catheter containing the ultrasound probe was then placed spanning the SV thrombus. Thrombolytic agent and heparin infusion were then started with the same rates as before. We decided to infuse the thrombolytic in the SV for 6 hours only since we thought that the residual thrombus burden was less than that originally encountered in the PV.Follow-up venograms of the IMV and SV were done 6 hours later and showed patent SV and IMV with severe stenosis at the proximal SV near its junction with the PV caused by residual thrombus . Angioplasty of the stenotic segment was performed using a 7-mm and 9-mm angioplasty balloons (Dorado; Bard peripheral vascular, Tempe, Arizona) with minimal residual stenosis ( and C). At this point, we decided to terminate the thrombolytic infusion. The sheath was removed, and the percutaneous tract through the liver was embolized using coils (Tornado; Cook, Bloomington, Indiana). During the thrombolytic infusion period, the patient's laboratory parameters, particularly the fibrinogen, INR, and lactic acid levels, remained within normal limits, while his partial thromboplastin time was elevated since he was receiving intravenous heparin drip. The RBC count, hemoglobin, and hematocrit levels remained stable. The patient had no episodes of clinical bleeding during thrombolytic infusion. Further hypercoagulable workup studies revealed a heterozygous prothrombin 3G mutation consistent with inherited thrombophilia. The patient was placed on a prophylactic dose of rivaroxaban according to hematology service recommendation. The patient continued to do well throughout his hospital course and was able to advance his diet until he was discharged 8 days after the procedure in stable condition. A month later, the patient presented to the emergency department with severe abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. Contrast-enhanced CT scan was performed and showed patent PV, SV, SMV, and IMV . However, there was proximal small bowel obstruction. The transitional zone between dilated and normal bowel was at the level of the ligament of Trietz, suggesting an ischemic stricture at the segment that previously demonstrated bowel wall abnormality on the original CT . The patient was admitted to gastrointestinal (GI) surgery service for bowel resection. During resection, a severe stricture was noted approximately 8 cm distal to the ligament of Trietz. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications. His surgical pathology specimen showed mucosal ulceration with associated transmural chronic inflammation and fibrosis as well as mesenteric fat necrosis and fibrosis. The rest of his hospital stay was uneventful until he was discharged a week later in stable condition.
