A 64-year-old man was brought to our hospital with a two-day history of worsening chest pain on inspiration, dyspnea and fever. The patient had a medical history of poorly-controlled diabetes mellitus (Hemoglobin A1c level, 9 %), and a history of heavy alcohol consumption but no past history of pulmonary disease. On admission, his vital signs were: blood pressure 138/98 mmHg, pulse rate 103 beats/min, body temperature 38.8 °C, respiratory rate 22 breaths/min, and arterial oxygen saturation 94 % on 2 L/min oxygen by nasal cannula. Laboratory examination showed leukocytosis (15,000 cells/μl) and elevated levels of C-reactive protein (24.2 mg/dL), fibrinogen (882 mg/dL) and D-dimer (3.86 μg/dL). A chest radiograph showed multiple, small pulmonary nodules in both lungs. Chest computed tomography (CT) revealed multiple bilateral pulmonary nodules, mostly located subpleurally . Some of these lesions showed feeding vessel signs and there were wedge-shaped peripheral lesions abutting the pleura , suggesting SPE . In the search for the primary source of infection, transthoracic echocardiography showed no vegetations on the heart valves, and neck echography was normal. However, the patient complained of pain of the right upper jaw. Oral examination by a dentist revealed poor oral hygiene and severe chronic periodontitis, especially the right maxillary canine had remarkable gingival swelling, suppuration, ≥ 8 mm of probing pocket depth and radiographically confirmed severe bone loss that was horizontally widespread . Facial MRI furthermore revealed hyperintensity on T2-weighted image in the right alveopalatal part and maxilla , the same locations as the periodontitis, indicating inflammatory alterations. Therefore, we diagnosed the case as periodontitis-associated SPE and started empirical treatment with meropenem on hospital day 1. However, since the patient remained febrile (38 °C) and showed deteriorated chest pain and dyspnea on hospital day 5, meropenem was replaced with vancomycin and dental treatment, including extraction of the right maxillary canine and remaining roots of first molar  and oral hygiene instructions were additionally provided. Repeated blood culture resulted in no growth of any microorganisms after 5 days of incubation using the BacT/Alert 3D system (Sysmex-Biomerieux, Tokyo, Japan). To determine the causative pathogen, bronchoscopic BAL was performed and BAL fluid was collected. The BAL fluid was collected by the injection of normal saline into the right middle lobe (B5a), which contained the embolic lesion indicated by the CT imaging, followed by bronchial washing twice with normal saline injection to avoid contamination by commensal organisms. The BAL fluid sample was subcultured on Brucella HK (hemin, vitamin K1) RS (rabbit, sheep) blood agar (Kyokuto, Tokyo, Japan) and then incubated under an anaerobic condition at 35 °C. After 96 h of incubation, white colonies appeared on the agar plate. We identified the isolate as Actinomyces species (Actinomyces spp.) using the RapID ANA II systems (Amco, Tokyo, Japan). The minimum inhibitory concentrations of drugs determined by Dry Plate Eiken SB-03 (Eiken Chemical, Tokyo, Japan) showed that the isolate was highly susceptible to all β-lactams, clindamycin, and carbapenems . Two days after the start of vancomycin therapy and the completion of tooth extraction, the symptoms including fever and chest pain gradually improved. On hospital day 23, the patient was discharged and continued treatment with oral clindamycin. At the 1-month follow-up, since repeated CT showed almost complete disappearance of the lung lesions , antibiotic
).
