An 87-year-old male presented with increasing sac size with an EL2 arising from the 4th lumbar artery at 5 years following EVAR. Initial follow-up imaging at 1 month had demonstrated an EL2, however, the sac size had remained stable until 4 years post-EVAR when it increased from 6 to 7.5 cm. The patient was therefore referred for embolisation. CFA access was obtained and a standard (short) 6F sheath inserted. A hydrophilic wire and 4F Cobra catheter were negotiated between the right iliac endograft and the iliac artery wall. Once the catheter was advanced to the level of the endoleak, contrast was injected and was visualised to fill a small cavity and then the lumber arteries, confirming satisfactory position of the catheter tip within the endoleak nidus. A microcatheter was advanced coaxially into the nidus and the endoleak nidus was embolised with Onyx until reflux into the lumbar arteries was observed. Follow-up imaging with CTA and Duplex US at 1 month showed no residual endoleak with stable sac size .
An 81-year-old male patient presented with an EL2 arising from a lumbar artery on a post-operative CTA one-week post-EVAR. This persisted on a further CTA 7 months later and was associated with a 1.1 cm increase in the sac size. Therefore, the patient was referred for embolisation. A catheter was advanced alongside the right endograft limb into the aneurysm sac. Once the catheter was placed within the sac, there was evidence of low-pressure flow and angiographic evidence of communication with the left L4 lumbar artery suggesting that the catheter had accessed the endoleak nidus. The endoleak nidus was embolised with Onyx through a microcatheter. Follow-up Duplex US 2 months post-embolisation shows no residual EL2 and stable sac size.
An 88-year-old male patient developed an EL2 following EVAR for a 6.6 cm aneurysm. After a 4-year period of observation, during which the sac size was stable, an increase of 8 mm in the sac size was identified on Duplex and CTA. Catheter angiography confirmed an endoleak arising from the 4th left lumbar artery supplied by the left ipsilateral iliolumbar artery. Embolisation with Onyx was performed after placing a microcatheter into the aneurysm sac via the transiliac para-endograft approach. Post-embolisation Duplex US after 1 month showed no residual endoleak. However, a 4-month follow-up CTA identifiedan EL2 adjacent to the Onyx cast. This was thought to represent a recurrent endoleak rather than a persistent endoleak due to incomplete embolisation at the first procedure. The patient was re-admitted and again access to the endoleak nidus was obtained via the same approach. Angiography confirmed the presence of the endoleak nidus adjacent to the Onyx cast. Embolisation of the endoleak nidus with Onyx was performed through a microcatheter. The patient remains asymptomatic and a Duplex US 2 months after the last intervention shows a stable sac size and no residual endoleak.
