A 54 yr-old male with hypertension and diabetes fell from a height of 12 m and was admitted to a peripheral hospital. Results of a neurologic examination were completely normal; however, a total body computed tomography scan showed the following injuries: a fracture of the right humerus, an unstable fracture of the T6 vertebra, a stable fracture of the T10 vertebra, fractures of the sixth and seventh left ribs, fractures of the fifth and sixth right ribs, bilateral hemothoraces, a right femoral fracture, and a left ankle fracture. He initially had surgery to correct the fractures of his right arm and leg, but 24 hr following tracheal extubation, his trachea was reintubated owing to respiratory distress. A computed tomography scan showed a thrombotic occlusion of the upper and middle right pulmonary arteries secondary to an embolism of a left common femoral deep vein thrombosis. An intravenous unfractionated heparin infusion was initiated, and the patient was transferred to our tertiary care institution for management of his spinal injuries. He was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) in a stable hemodynamic condition with uninterrupted tracheal intubation. Two days before his planned surgery, an OPTEASE Ò retrievable IVC filter (Cordis Corporation, Fremont, CA, USA) was placed so that the heparin infusion could be stopped preoperatively. In the operating room, the patient was placed uneventfully in the prone position on conventional convex support pads. The mean inspiratory airway pressure was relatively high (20 cm H 2 O) before prone positioning and increased to 27 cm H 2 O in the prone position. A central line had already been inserted through the patient's left internal jugular vein, and the central venous pressure, recorded only after the patient was turned to the prone position, was 10-13 mmHg throughout surgery. The operation consisted of a T6 laminectomy and T4-T12 posterior instrumentation and arthrodesis. At the end of the surgical instrumentation, the patient developed ventricular trigeminy which lasted three minutes, but he remained hemodynamically stable with a blood pressure of 95/55 mmHg and a heart rate of 100 beatsÁmin-1 Arterial blood gas and laboratory tests showed adequate oxygenation with normal hemoglobin and electrolytes. He was treated with fluid replacement with normal saline and a first dose of intravenous magnesium 10 mg. The arrhythmias did not recur. The surgery lasted 180 min, and at the end of the procedure, the patient was placed in the supine position with a central venous pressure of 10 mmHg. He was subsequently transferred to the ICU. Over the next 48 hr, the patient developed a high-grade fever of 39°C and could not be weaned from the ventilator. The results of blood tests were unremarkable, and the chest x-ray was normal. An echocardiogram, performed to rule out endocarditis, showed that the IVC filter had migrated into the right ventricle. Despite being radio-opaque, the IVC filter could not be identified on the plain chest x-ray, even retrospectively, due to the superimposed image of the heart . The patient was taken to the catheterization laboratory where an attempt was made to retrieve the filter percutaneously. The device was clearly seen on radioscopy and captured with a snare ; however, an attempt at its removal led to cardiac arrest—the struts of the filter could not be freed from the tricuspid valve apparatus, which led to a tear in the valve and sudden ventricular Vena cava filter migration in prone position 1115 fibrillation. The patient was immediately and successfully defibrillated. An echocardiogram showed severe tricuspid regurgitation , and the patient was immediately rushed to the operating room and placed onto cardiopulmonary bypass via a midline sternotomy. The anterior leaflet of the tricuspid valve had been avulsed from the tricuspid annulus. The filter was carefully removed, and the leaflet was sutured back to the annulus with reinforced stitches. A size 32 tricuspid ring was then inserted. The patient tolerated the procedure well, had an uneventful recovery, and was discharged from the ICU to the ward two days postoperatively on an intravenous unfractionated heparin infusion. He was doing well six months after hospital discharge.
