A 60-year-old woman presented with bed-bound polyneuropathy, edema, splenomegaly, IgM-l-type monoclonal protein, and infiltration of CD20-positive lymphoplasmacytic cells in the bone marrow in 2008 . She was diagnosed with POEMS syndrome (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal plasma cell disorder, and skin changes) associated with WM. She was treated with rituximab and thalidomide and her IgM levels decreased and her symptoms were well controlled. Her symptoms recurred in October 2012 and July 2013, but she responded well to retreatment with rituximab and thalidomide maintenance therapy. Ataxia, nausea, and frequent falling at home developed around June 2014. A brain CT scan revealed a low-attenuation lesion in the cerebellum, and contrast-enhanced MRI showed a 4-cm mass-like lesion extending from the left cerebellum to the pons . CSF obtained by lumbar puncture showed no malignant cells. A brain tumor biopsy was performed via craniotomy, and histological examination of the biopsy sample revealed infiltration of large atypical lymphocytes accompanied by necrosis. Immunostaining showed positivity for CD20, CD79a, Bcl-2 and MIB-1 in the abnormal cells , but negativity for CD3, CD5, CD10 and CD138. The patient was therefore diagnosed with DLBCL. Soluble interleukin-2 receptor (221 IU/µL) and lactate dehydrogenase levels were within normal limits. No other primary or metastatic lesions were detected by contrastenhanced whole-body CT, indicating that the transformed lesion was limited to the CNS. We examined the cerebellum biopsy sample by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and detected a mutation in myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MYD88) L265P in the cerebellum biopsy sample, using OCI-Ly3 (a DLBCL cell line with a homozygous mutation in MYD88 L265P) as a positive control, and SUDHL4 (a B cell line with no MYD88 mutation) as a negative control . Bone marrow mononuclear cells at onset of WM had the same MYD88 L265P mutation . We also determined that the cerebellum lesion originated from the previous lymphoplasmacyte sample of WM.nated from the same clonal B lymphocytes in the bone marrow at the onset of WM. The patient's nausea and vomiting disappeared after treatment with glycerol and betamethasone. R-MPV therapy 8 was administered based on a diagnosis of WM transformation to DLBCL . R-MPV therapy included rituximab 610 mg on day 1, methotrexate 5,700 mg on day 2, vincristine 2 mg on day 2, and procarbazine 100 mg/ day on days 1-7 (odd cycles only). Folinic acid (leucovorin) was given appropriately, based on the blood concentration of methotrexate. Vomiting reappeared on day 2. Brain CT showed no signs of new lesions, or hemorrhage, and the symptoms disappeared immediately with antiemetic drugs and betamethasone to prevent brain edema. By the end of the first cycle of R-MPV, the patient's nausea, vomiting, and double vision had disappeared, and there was significant improvement of her subjective symptoms . All chemotherapy-related adverse events (grade 2 nausea, grade 3 neutropenia) were manageable. MRI after the first treatment cycle confirmed significant reduction of the tumor , which supported continuation of the same treatment. Complete remission was confirmed by brain MRI after five cycles of therapy. Reduced-dose WBRT (23.4 Gy) and two cycles of high-dose Ara-C were given as consolidation therapy . The patient's disease was well controlled and progression-free survival was demonstrated after 6 months' observation.
