In January 2014, a 55-year-old Caucasian woman was admitted to our Emergency Unit with paroxysmal malignant hypertension accompanied by headache, vertigo, tachycardia, lacrimation, nausea and altered mental status. Her medical history included a caesarean section (1984), an abdominal surgery due to mechanical ileus, a laparoscopic cholecystectomy (1995), gastro-oesophageal reflux and a total thyroidectomy due to a benign nontoxic multi-nodular goiter, later requiring thyroid hormonal substitution. In 2008, an elevated fasting glucose level pointed to an underlying type 2 diabetes mellitus. Hypertension and sinus tachycardia was first diagnosed in 2003. Consequently, the patient underwent several examinations in various hospitals but no underlying organic causes of her complaints could be detected. Endocrinological disorders-especially pheochromocytoma-were excluded on several occasions. Her altered mental status during the hypertensive crises raised the possibility of neurological deficiency, but no signs of intracranial tumor, cerebral vascular lesion, hemorrhage or even epilepsy were detectable. Moreover, cardiac arrhythmias and ischemic heart disease were also excluded. Eventually, in 2004, after numerous diagnostic procedures, panic syndrome was diagnosed; therefore anxiolytic and antidepressant medications were initiated. Between 2004 and 2013 the patient was treated with this combination of psychopharmacological agents. During a thorough psychiatric follow-up period the frequency of the paroxysms dropped noticeably, but the patient seemed to be addicted to the psychopharmacological regimen so the medications were withdrawn in another center. During the following year the patient did not show any clinical symptoms of paroxysmal hypertension. At the time of the current admission to our clinic the patient's medical therapy consisted of metoprolol 100 mg twice daily, esomeprazole 40 mg daily, levothyroxine 100 μg daily, allopurinol 100 mg daily, and insulin therapy (glulisine insulin 3 times a day and glargine insulin once a day). The patient presented herself at the Division of Rare Diseases for further etiologic examinations. During the first clinical evaluation a very severe attack could be observed. The patient became unconscious and her blood pressure rapidly rose to 230/100 mmHg, with a regular heart rate of 160 to 180/minute . Moreover, focal muscle twitching appeared on her left face, and excessive lacrimation and flushing could also be observed. Because of her unstable clinical condition she was immediately admitted to our ICU. Before the administration of additional medications, the patient's severe clinical condition improved significantly without assistance. By the end of the paroxysm the frequency of sinus rhythm decreased to 90/minute and her blood pressure was also normalized. After the crisis, no signs of arrhythmia or long-standing neurological defects could be observed. No other significant clinical abnormalities could be found during further clinical examinations. Afterwards, during the first week of hospitalization she had attacks two to four times a day. These paroxysmal hypertensive crises lasted for three to five minutes and then disappeared spontaneously without any medical interventions. Between the paroxysms the patient was asymptomatic. Because of the repeated attacks, a combination of alpha-and beta-adrenoceptor blockers was given, which was able to lower her blood pressure and heart rate during the paroxysms, but not the frequency of the attacks. Holter electrocardiography recordings and twelve-lead surface electrocardiograms revealed sudden onset of episodic sinus tachycardia without any signs of further atrial or ventricular arrhythmias . Renal Doppler ultrasound examination was performed to exclude renovascular disease. It revealed physiological blood flow in both renal arteries, with no significant difference regarding resistive indices (0.67 versus 0.7, respectively). Although previous examinations were not able to prove any endocrinological background of the paroxysms, a repeated laboratory testing of pheochromocytoma and carcinoid was performed. Laboratory results of our patient are shown in . An elevated serum chromogranin A level appeared, but it proved to be a false positive result due to concomitant proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy (after cessation of the PPI, the chromogranin A level was in the normal range). Surprisingly, an adenoma could be detected in the left adrenal gland during computed tomography. Due to the repeated severe clinical symptoms, we were obliged to start treatment of the pheochromocytoma; thus, a cardio-selective beta-blocker (bisoprolol 5 mg twice daily) in combination with an alpha-adrenoceptor-blocker (doxazosine 4 mg once daily) was initiated. During this time, urine concentrationsOther Preeclampsia or eclampsia, obstructive sleep apnea, anxiety or panic attacks, acute intermittent porphyria, recurrent idiopathic anaphylaxis of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), metanephrine, normetanephrine and dopamine were found to be normal. Although, we measured slightly elevated serum concentrations of noradrenalin and dopamine during an attack, the levels did not fulfill the criteria for pheochromocytoma . To ensure the safe exclusion of pheochromocytoma, an iodine-131-metaiodobenzylguanidine ( 131 IMIBG) scan was also performed, which did not reveal any abnormalities relating to adrenal gland dysfunction . Furthermore, hyperaldosteronism as a veryrare cause of paroxysmal hypertension could also be excluded. Further laboratory tests helped to exclude any hormonal abnormalities; thus the aforementioned adrenal gland adenoma was regarded as an 'incidentaloma'. Thyroid laboratory tests showed the effective hormonal substitution of hypothyroidism secondary to the previous thyroidectomy. After excluding the possibility of endocrine disorders we focused on anxiolytic medication. For this reason psychiatric examination was performed and alprazolam was re-administered in a daily dose of 1 mg (0.5 mg twice daily). We could demonstrate an immediate clinical improvement; furthermore, the daily dose of alpha-and beta-blockers could also be decreased. During the administration of alprazolam at a daily dose of 1 mg, sleepiness and fatigue occurred, therefore we decreased the daily dose to 0.5 mg. Consequently, the paroxysmal increase in blood pressure reappeared so further therapy of 1 mg was necessary for maintenance. After a four-week period on the ICU, the patient was discharged though still with mild symptoms but with an improved quality of life. The systolic and diastolic blood pressures and heart rate collected after the discharge of our patient were inserted into the manuscript .
