The authors present four clinical cases of Wegener's granulomatosis, the patients being hospitalize in our ENT Clinic, in a 10 years period. We retrospectively studied the medical documents of our patients. Nowadays, there is under the observation one case, because, unfortunately, the other three patients deceased.
Female patient, I.Z., 27-year-old, has been transferred into Department of ENT, 3 rd Clinic of Internal Medicine, Emergency County Hospital, Timişoara, Romania, with the following symptoms: left frontal headache, bilateral nasal obstruction, bilateral mucopurulent rhinorrhea and anosmia. Personal pathological antecedents: left chronic maxillary sinusitis, secondary anemia. The patient presented multiple hospitalizations for repeated epistaxis accompanied by bilateral nasal obstruction, anosmia, bilateral hearing loss, for approximately 1.5–2 years ago prior diagnosis. Nasal rigid endoscopy showed bilateral nasal mucosa affected by a granulomatosis inflammatory process, hemorrhagic crusts and granulation tissue, septal ulceration . A biopsy has been performed, and the histopathological exam revealed a granulomatosis inflammatory process, with extensive fibrinoid necrotic zones and necrotic epitheloid granulomas. Paraclinic exam comprised on: erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 103 mm/h, hemoglobin (Hb) 8.6 mg%, hematocrit (Ht) 28.6%, blood urea 17mg%, serum creatinine 1 mg%, chest radiography – normal X-ray image, and ACPA test with high level of anticytoplasmatic autoantibodies. The patient presented a segmental and focal chronic glomerulonephritis. Wegener's granulomatosis diagnosis has been established on the clinic, paraclinic and histopathological exam. Biopsy revealed necrotising granulomatous vasculitis with Langhans' giant cells, neutrophil infiltration of the small arteries and venules and fibrinoid necrosis. The patient was rehospitalized in the Department of Internal Medicine and started corticosteroid and Cyclophosphamide treatment. Serum ANCA (anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody) were increased in the early phase of the disease, but normalized with treatment. No relapses have occurred. The clinical and laboratory analyses were performed at every third month, the patient being in a stable condition.
Female patient, S.M., 25-year-old, presented to our Department of ENT with bilateral chemosis and nasal obstruction, mild dyspnea, headache and anosmia. Personal pathological antecedents revealed a bronchial asthma diagnosed three years ago. Nasal rigid endoscopic exam showed bloody crusts covering nasal mucosa  and a nasal septum cartilage perforation. The nasal biopsy and subsequent histopathological exam revealed a mucosal and submucosal inflammatory process. The patient underwent a dermatologic and biopsy exam from elbows and knees petechial cutaneous lesions revealing a non-specific inflammatory process. During admission period, the dyspnea has aggravated, especially he inspiratory phase. On nasopharyngolaryngeal fiber optic endoscopy, we encountered a subglottic stenosis . Paraclinic exam showed: ESR 120 mm/h, Hb 8.2 mg%, Ht 27.4%, chest radiography revealed multiple cavitary and non-cavitary nodules in both lungs and high level of anticytoplasmic autoantibodies on ACPA test. The patient presented a focal chronic glomerulonephritis and bilateral episcleritis. The patient was transferred into Department of Internal Medicine and started corticosteroid and Cyclophosphamide treatment. The serum ANCA was still present. We performed frequent urinalyses and measurement of serum ANCA levels. The patient was followed by nephrologists specialized in the treatment of immunological diseases. The patient died three years later.
Male patient, N.P., of 52-year-old has been admitted into our Department of ENT with the following symptoms and signs: bilateral nasal obstruction, oral breathing, bilateral mucopurulent rhinorrhea, headache, asthenia and severe malaise. The general clinical exam was under normal limits. Nasal endoscopic exam: nasal mucosa congested and swollen covered with bloody crusts and associated with mucosal ulceration. We performed a nasal biopsy with a histopathological exam: chronic inflammatory granulomatosis process with extended areas of suppurative necrosis. Paraclinical exam: ESR 116 mm/h, Hb 10.7%, serum creatinine 2.1 mg%, and high level of anticytoplasmic autoantibodies on ACPA test. The patient was admitted to Department of Nephrology and started the same therapeutic scheme, but after two years, the patient died.
Female patient, Z.I., 27-year-old, presented to the Department of Nephrology with the following diagnosis: ANCA positive vasculitis, chronic secondary glomerulonephritis with nephritic syndrome, urinary infection with Klebsiella, mild secondary anemia, respiratory insufficiency. Due to respiratory and aural symptoms and signs, the patient was addressed to our Department of ENT establishing the diagnosis: subglottic stenosis, bilateral supurative otitis media, chronic nasal inflammatory granulomatous process, left maxillary and frontal sinusitis . A nasal biopsy has been performed revealing Wegener's granulomatosis. Paraclinical exam: ESR 91 mm/h, Hb 8.58%, serum creatinine 2.6 mg%, high level of anticytoplasmic autoantibodies on ACPA test, anti-MPO (myeloperoxidase antibody) was negative and anti-PR3 (proteinase 3) was positive. Chest X-ray was in normal limits. In Department of Nephrology, the patient started treatment with corticosteroid and Cyclophosphamide treatment with a favorable evolution. The patient developed a secondary arterial hypertension and iatrogenic secondary amenorrhea, segmental and focal chronic glomerulonephritis and deceased four years later. In –10, there are Hematoxylin–Eosin (HE) staining, Periodic Acid–Schiff (PAS) reaction and argentic staining (PASM, Periodic Acid–Silver Methenamine) microscopic aspects of glomerulonephritis with loop necrosis, semilunar cells and fibrosis (20×), skin ulceration and striated muscle inflammatory reactions.
