A 43-year-old male patient suffered from a severe acute hepatitis B infection and liver failure and underwent LDLT with a right lobe graft. The hepatic arteries and portal veins of the donor and recipient, respectively, were anastomosed end-to-end and bile duct reconstruction was performed with a duct-to-duct anastomosis. Intraoperative ultrasound showed no abnormalities in the hepatic artery, portal vein, hepatic vein or bile duct. After LDLT, the patient received immunosuppression therapy using tacrolimus and metacortandracin. Ultrasonography was performed as a follow-up technique by two experienced ultrasound physicians with more than 5 years of experience in liver transplantation. Conventional gray-scale and Doppler ultrasound was performed every day during the first two weeks after the transplantation, and afterwards, the time and interval of the ultrasound examination depended on the laboratory results and clinical conditions. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) was performed whenever needed. Within the first 50 days, ultrasound revealed a mild right pleural effusion and ascites, but no significant abnormalities of the HA, portal vein or hepatic vein were observed. Unfortunately, the patient developed acute rejection, accompanied by malnutrition, with abnormal liver function test results and a high total bilirubin level. Therefore, anti-rejection therapy by adjusting the concentration of immunosuppressive drugs was performed in the intensive care unit. On the 51 st postoperative day, the patient developed hematemesis, melena and high fever. Laboratory tests revealed moderate anemia (red blood cell count, 2.4 × 10 12 /l; hemoglobin, 73 g/l). An emergent ultrasound examination was performed, and a homogeneous cystic lesion with a size of 3 × 2 cm was detected in the hilus hepatis, which showed the characteristic red and blue arterial flow pattern on the color Doppler flow image . Therefore, a pseudoaneurysm involving the HA allograft was suspected. CEUS was performed immediately at the beside, which further confirmed the diagnosis by demonstrating contrast enhancement in the focal lesion during the arterial phase due to microbubble leakage from the HA . Moreover, graft necrosis and abscess did not appear within the hepatic parenchyma on CEUS. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography  and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) showed similar findings . Interventional stent placement was attempted immediately,but it failed because of the tortuosity of the HA. Subsequently, the patient underwent coil embolization of the HAP combined with thrombin injections. After the embolization, the pseudoaneurysm lumen was totally occluded, as confirmed by DSA . Two days later, the patient suddenly had massive rebleeding, and his blood pressure dropped rapidly. These symptoms were strongly indicative of rupture of the HAP. Urgent exploratory laparotomy was performed immediately, and a blood clot that was 4 × 3 cm in size was discovered in the hilus hepatis . These findings were accompanied by bile leakage from the common bile duct. Moreover, intraoperative gray-scale ultrasound identified a 2.12-cm peel of the inner membrane of the HA , which indicated the occurrence of HA dissection. With this condition, it was almost impossible to perform a surgical repair successfully. Hence, resection of the pseudoaneurysm and HA dissection were performed, followed by arterial reconstruction with interposition bypass via the saphenous vein between the donor right hepatic artery and recipient common hepatic artery. After the reconstructed vessel was reopened, hepatic arterial signals in the hilus hepatis could be detected by intraoperative Doppler ultrasound, but intrahepatic arterial signals could not be detected, which suggested thrombosis of the intrahepatic HA. Attempts at taking out the thrombosis to regain arterial flow failed. However, slender branches of the HA were visualized within the hepatic parenchyma by intraoperative CEUS , which indicated the opening of collateral circulation. Taking into account the formation of collateral arterial circulation and the possibility of bleeding because of weakness of the saphenous vein, hepatic artery ligation (HAL) was finally decided on in order to avoid rebleeding from the HA, which had multiple lesions. After the HAL, the patient was hemodynamically stable and did not have further bleeding. The follow-up examinations revealed an absence of blood flow in the HA on conventional ultrasound scans, as well as collateral circulation of the HA on both CEUS and 3D-CEUS scans . Biliary complications arising from hepatic artery ischemia were also detected. At the first postoperative month, gray-scale ultrasound revealed mild dilation of the intrahepatic bile duct and thickening of the wall of the extrahepatic bile duct, and later, multiple cystic-solid mixed lesions with a maximum diameter of 4 cm in the hepatic parenchyma were observed. CEUS showed no enhancement in these lesions . Then, percutaneous transhepatic cholangial drainage (PTCD) was performed to remove the obstruction in the bile duct, and during the procedure, the lesions were confirmed as bilomas , which became smaller and disappeared 5 months later. Additionally, at the fourth postoperative month, biliary cast formation was observed. Unfortunately, the patient developed severe bacterial and fungal infections involving the lung, biliary and intestinal tracts, which may have been caused by the use of immunosuppressants and metacortandracin, bile leakage, malnutrition and iatrogenic factors. Although he was hospitalized and treated for one year, multiple organ failure occurred, leading to death.
