A male student in his early 20s reported to the outpatient department of our hospital with a chief complaint of a solitary painless swelling on the lower right side of the face that had gradually been increasing in size over a period of 4 years. Extraoral examination revealed an ill-defined swelling near the angle of the mouth on the right side measuring approximately 2.0×3.0 cm and extending 1 cm above the lower border of the mandible. The swelling was firm to palpate. The overlying skin appeared normal with no rise in the local temperature . Intraoral examination revealed a solitary illcircumscribed swelling in the right labial mucosa measuring approximately 2.0 cm×2.5 cm in diameter, extending in relation to 43 to 44 region, with mild obliteration of the labial vestibule. There was no tenderness on palpation or any signs of discharge. The overlying mucosa appeared stretched but normal. The mucosa over the swelling was slightly blanched with one area showing a slight bluish hue . There was no associated cervical lymphadenopathy. The patient's periodontal status was good with a full complement of permanent teeth. The lesion was surgically excised under local anaesthesia and submitted with a provisional diagnosis of mucocele for histopathological examination. On macroscopic examination the excised lesion was roughly oval in shape, brown in colour, measuring 1.8×1.0 cm with an irregular surface and firm consistency .Clinical photograph showing a solitary ill-circumscribed swelling in the left buccal mucosa obliterating the buccal vestibule with an area exhibiting a bluish hue. Histopathological examination of the formalin-fixed, processed and H&E-stained tissue sections revealed connective tissue stroma containing numerous closely packed enlarged endothelial-lined blood vessels interspersed between the skeletal muscle fibres ( , B). Vascular spaces were thin-walled, variable in size, dilated with a back-to-back arrangement in a sinusoidal fashion . Few blood vessels were engorged with red blood cells. The endothelial cells were bland with no evidence of pleomorphism or mitosis . Intravascular organising thrombi were evident. Papillary projections into the vascular lumen were present with evidence of Masson's phenomenon . Other areas showed abundant endothelial cell proliferations . Few skeletal muscle fibres exhibited areas of degeneration. Immunohistochemical staining with Ki-67 showed positivity in the nuclei of the endothelial cells lining the blood vessels between the skeletal muscle fibres , indicating an increase in their mitotic activity. Based on the above histopathological features, a final diagnosis of intramuscular sinusoidal haemangioma with secondary Masson's phenomenon was made.
