A 1-month-old boy with a bicuspid aortic valve and coarctation of the aorta underwent extended direct anastomosis. A follow-up cardiac catheter examination, done 1 year later, revealed newly developed mild supravalvular aortic stenosis with a gradient of 19 mmHg and 55 % stenosis of the left coronary ostium . Stress myocardial scintigraphy detected a perfusion defect in the septal-anterior area; therefore, elective surgery was scheduled. After fully mobilizing the ascending aorta and arch, cardiopulmonary bypass was established with aortic arch perfusion and bicaval venous drainage. The distal ascending aorta was cross-clamped and the ascending aorta was transected just above the sinotubular junction. It was found that the supravalvular stenosis had been caused by partially developed fibrous intimal proliferation at the sinotubular junction. This fibrous intima obstructed the left coronary artery orifice. First, we made a longitudinal incision through the superior wall of the left coronary ostium, and then we made two incisions in the aortic sinus between both commissures longitudinally at the aortic root. Next, Abstract A 1-year-old boy with a bicuspid aortic valve, who had undergone successful repair of coarctation of the aorta by extended end-to-end direct anastomosis at the age of 1 month, was found to have mild supravalvular aortic stenosis involving the left coronary ostium. Because he was so young, we performed a modified Myers' all-autologous 3-sinus reconstruction to allow for potential growth. After transecting the ascending aorta just above the sinotubular junction, the superior wall of the left coronary ostium and the aortic root between both commissures were incised longitudinally, and then each of the incised parts was augmented by creating three flaps of distal aortic wall directly. Postoperatively, myocardial scintigram confirmed resolution of the pressure gradient at the supravalvular stenotic portion and improvement of the perfusion defect in the septal-anterior area.we made three longitudinal incisions in the distal side of the transected aorta to create three native aortic wall flaps to cover the incised parts of the proximal side. The incised superior wall of the left coronary ostium was covered with an aortic wall flap, secured with 7-0 polypropylene interrupted sutures . The remaining two incisions in the aortic root were also covered by two flaps, secured with 7-0 polypropylene continuous sutures. The child had an uneventful postoperative course. Follow-up myocardial scintigram showed that the supravalvular aortic stenosis and stenosis of the left coronary ostium had resolved completely  and the perfusion defect had disappeared.
