A 77-year-old Japanese woman who had severe aortic stenosis underwent routine aortic valve replacement (AVR) with a 19-mm bioprosthetic valve (Trifecta Valve™; St. Jude Medical, St. Paul, MN) via median sternotomy. The thymus was not excised, but the isthmus was split in the midline by electrocautery. Minimal aortic dissection was performed for cross-clamping, but pulmonary artery dissection was not done. There were no intraoperative complications and the mediastinal drains were removed on the following morning after drainage of 80 mL of serous fluid. The patient was scheduled to be discharged 15 days after surgery because she had chosen to undergo cardiac rehabilitation. On the 15 th postoperative day, she developed progressive shortness of breath that was accompanied by nausea and vomiting. She was hypotensive, with a systolic pressure of 65 mmHg, and the jugular venous pressure was elevated. Echocardiography demonstrated a 2 cm pericardial effusion with diastolic right ventricular collapse, so cardiac tamponade was diagnosed. A pericardial pigtail catheter was inserted, and 500 mL of milky white fluid was drained with immediate hemodynamic improvement. This fluid was lymph with a high triglyceride concentration (2.95 × 10 4 mg/L), so chylopericardium was diagnosed. Drainage from the pericardial catheter continued for 2 weeks (60 to 800 ml daily), while she was managed conservatively with a high protein, low fat diet containing medium-chain triglycerides. Then the patient was fasted for 2 weeks with total parenteral nutrition and subcutaneous somatostatin (100 μg three times daily). Her serum total protein and albumin levels and body weight decreased substantially during this period, while drainage of lymph persisted and cardiac tamponade-like symptoms developed immediately after clamping of thedrain was attempted. Because conservative management had failed to control the leakage of lymph, surgery was performed on the 43rd postoperative day (see Additional file 1). One hundred milliliters of thick cream (50 ml of concentrated milk (4.6% fat) and 50 ml of fresh cream (47% fat)) was introduced into the stomach 2 hours before starting the operation to facilitate identification of the thoracic duct and lymphatics. After sternotomy was repeated via the same incision, two leaks were identified. One leak was on the transected surface of the left lobe of the thymus and this was oversewn with 3-0 Prolene . The other leak was from a lymphatic running directly above the innominate vein and this was clipped . After these procedures, no further leakage of lymph was seen in the surgical field. A pericardial window was created before finishing the operation so that lymph would not accumulate in the pericardium if another leak occurred. Postoperative chest radiography and echocardiography confirmed no re-accumulation of pericardial fluid and the patient was discharged 4 weeks after the second operation.
