A 62-year-old man presented with first episode of unconscious collapse secondary to malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmia with underlying HCM. Fortunately he survived the episode as he had an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) inserted two months ago, after his monozygotic twin brother suffered a fatal cardiac arrest. Patient's twin brother, in whom the basis of monozygosity was established by history taken from our patient, was diagnosed with HCM 30 years ago following a routine work-related medical check-up. He was a physically active person, with no known risk factors for ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and no regular medication. He had an excellent exercise tolerance including regular strenuous activities like surfing and skiing. He did not have any prior history of syncope or presyncope, or any family history of sudden death. His echocardiogram done 4 weeks prior to event showed normal left ventricular (LV) size and function, marked asymmetric septal hypertrophy of 1.9 cm and no evidence of left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction. A 24-hour holter monitoring done 4 years ago showed no evidence of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (NSVT). The only available stress echocardiogram done 9 years ago showed no inducible LVOT gradient with a normal blood pressure response. He suffered sudden cardiac death at the age of 62 when he collapsed immediately after completing few laps of swimming with pre-warning signs of dizziness. Our patient was also known to have asymptomatic HCM as part of family screening 30 years ago. Following his brother's death, he underwent an elective ICD implantation a week later. After two months, he presented to the hospital with an unwitnessed syncopal episode lasting one minute, preceded by pre-warning signs of dizziness while at work on a ladder. He regained his consciousness afterwards and rang an ambulance. The ECG revealed a sinus rhythm with normal axis . Interrogation of ICD revealed 15 episodes of NSVT with a rate of 140 beats/min, followed by malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmia for 12 seconds, terminated successfully by a single shock . Like his brother he was previously well with no significant cardiovascular risk factors for IHD and no regular medication. His physical examination was unremarkable with vital parameters within normal limits. His initial troponin was 0.06 (NR <0.04) with no serial increment. An urgent angiogram revealed no significant coronary artery disease. An echocardiogram two months before the incident showed normal LV size and systolic function, asymmetric septal hypertrophy of 2.8 cm, and no evidence of LVOT obstruction. His previous 24-hour holter monitoring done three years ago had shown no evidence of NSVT. He did not undergo any exercise test in the past 8 years. He was admitted to intensive care unit (ICU) with cardiac monitoring and was commenced on sotalol. There was no further ventricular tachyarrhythmias noted on telemetry and he was discharged on day 4 with outpatient follow up.
