A 78 year old Caucasian woman with severe symptomatic AS and high surgical risk was admitted for elective TAVR procedure. Her comorbidities included chronic diastolic heart failure, moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), polycythemia vera, ventral hernia and hypothyroidism. Her Society of Thoracic Surgeon's (STS) mortality risk score was 6.6 %. A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed an EF of 65 %, a calculated aortic valve area (AVA) of 0.7 cm 2 and a mean gradient of 40 mm of Hg. There was moderate aortic regurgitation and mildly increased pulmonary pressures. Coronary angiography revealed no significant epicardial coronary artery disease. Computed tomographic angiography revealed a severely calcified aortic valve with annular diameter of 27 mm in systole. Left Coronary ostium height (distance between aortic annulus and left coronary ostium) in diastole was low at 8.8 mm with a small left coronary sinus noted . An elective TAVR procedure was performed in the cardiac catheterization laboratory under general anesthesia. Device implantation was performed through a trans-aortic approach due to a small caliber ililofemoral system. A 29 mm CoreValve bioprosthesis was deployed after a balloon aortic valvuloplasty under fluoroscopy and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) guidance. There was minimal residual gradient across the aortic valve and mild perivalvular aortic regurgitation (PVL) post device placement. The device implantation was successful. Approximately 20 min after device implantation, the patient was noted to have severe bradycardia, hypotension and ST segment changes with global left ventricular wall hypokinesis. A non-selective coronary angiogram showed ostial occlusion of the left main coronary artery (LMCA) by a displaced native aortic valve leaflet . After insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP), the left main ostium was stented using a 4.0 mm 9 12 mm Xience drug-eluting stent . After placement of the left main coronary stent, her hemodynamics stabilized with normal systolic function, mild PVL and no significant pericardial effusion. The patient was transferred to the ICU in a stable condition and was discharged post op day 5. 65 year old woman with low flow, low gradient, preserved ejection fraction severe AS (mean gradient of 29 mm of Hg and AVA of 0.9 cm 2 by TTE), presented with progressively worsening dyspnea on exertion. Her comorbidities included mild coronary artery disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, chronic diastolic heart failure, morbid obesity, COPD and obstructive sleep apnea and her calculated STS mortality risk score was 7 %. CT angiogram showed a mildly calcified aortic annulus with a 21.5 mm diameter and a narrow SOV . Height from annulus to LMCA ostium was 11.6 mm . Under general anesthesia, a 26 mm CoreValve bioprosthesis was implanted with fluoroscopic and TEE guidance. The device was positioned successfully at a depth of 2 mm below the aortic annulus with resultant negligible residual gradient across the aortic valve and only mild PVL. During closure of the femoral access site, ischemic changes were observed; hypotension ensued with evidence of severe diffuse LV hypokinesis. CPR was initiated and an IABP was inserted. Non-selective coronary angiography was performed showing occlusion of the LMCA ostium. Multiple attempts at wiring the LMCA were unsuccessful due to full coverage of the left main ostium by the displaced native leaflet. Therefore, the CoreValve was snared and pulled up to the sinotubular junction with resultant restoration of coronary flow and recovery of left ventricular systolic function. An echocardiogram a week later revealed aortic valve area of 1.2 cm 2 and a mean gradient of 16 mm of Hg consistent with moderate AS. 6 months later, severe symptomatic AS recurred and the patient underwent high risk surgical aortic valve replacement.Case 3 An 83 year old woman with symptomatic critical AS was deemed high risk for surgical AVR. Her comorbidities included NYHA class III diastolic heart failure, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, coronary artery disease and embolic stroke without residual deficits. She underwent stent placement to a diagonal branch of the left anterior descending artery 1 month prior. Her TTE showed AVA of 0.6 cm 2 , mean gradient across the aortic valve 63 mm of Hg and an ejection fraction of 65 %. Her CT angiogram revealed moderately calcified aortic valve cusps with annular diameter of 21 mm in systole. The left coronary ostium height was low at 8.3 mm . A 26 mm CoreValve prosthesis was implanted at a depth of 4 mm into the left ventricular outflow tract via the right femoral artery. Balloon aortic post dilatation was performed to ensure mild residual PVL without any residual AS. Subsequent aortogram demonstrated severe occlusion of the LMCA ostium by the bulky native left coronary leaflet . A 4.0 9 12 mm Xience DES was placed prophylactically into the left main extending out to the sinus with a good result . Her post procedure recovery was unremarkable and she was discharged home in stable condition.
