Th is is a report of a woman born with congenital bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) stenosis and aortic coarctation at the 10th cm of the aorta. Aft er her initial diagnosis at 3 years of age, she underwent aortic valvotomy and coarctation repair at 4 years of age and did well except for mild post-pericardiotomy syndrome. She subsequently experienced some episodes of chest discomfort and shortness of breath but otherwise did well. At 13 years of age, echocardiographic assessment of the valve stenosis showed mild residual aortic valve stenosis with a peak velocity of 3.7 m/s with a mean pressure estimate of 24 mmHg and moderate aortic regurgitation with mild concentric left ventricular hypertrophy. Her medications included captopril 12.5 mg p.o. daily and digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily. Th e possibility of left ventricular outfl ow tract (LVOT) obstruction in the future and the timing of a second surgical intervention once she was fully grown, anticoagulation and implications for pregnancy were discussed with the patient. At 18 years of age, she was referred for a Ross procedure. Her preoperative echocardiography showed a BAV with thickened leafl et tips and an annulus of 21 mm, moderate aortic stenosis with a peak velocity of 4 m/s and a mean pressure gradient of 43 mmHg associated with moderate aortic insuffi ciency. Her electrocardiogram (ECG) showed left ventricular hypertrophy. Due to signifi cant LVOT obstruction secondary to a bicuspid aortic valve, she underwent a Ross procedure. Her aortic valve was replaced with her pulmonary valve, and a Hancock valve replaced the pulmonary valve. Aft er the Ross procedure, she reported no complaints. She was started on aspirin 100 mg p.o. daily and enalapril 10 mg p.o. daily and has been followed for the degree of aortic root expansion, aortic regurgitation and monitoring of the Hancock valve. At 28 years of age, 10 years aft er the Ross procedure, she conceived and received routine prenatal care and close follow-up by her cardiologist with ECG and echocardiography. Her enalapril was stopped as soon as pregnancy was confi rmed. During pregnancy, mild dilatation of the aortic root (29 mm) and the ascending aorta (33 mm) were detected with mild aortic and pulmonary insuffi ciency. No sign of stenosis was detected in either the autologous or Hancock valves. No anticoagulation was used during the prenatal or postpartum periods. At 36 weeks ' gestation, due to the premature rupture of membranes and because the patient did not want an instrumental delivery for the second stage of labour and to avoid any negative eff ects from the Valsalva pushing technique, a caesarean section was performed under epidural anaesthesia aft er an antibiotic prophylaxis for subacute bacterial endocarditis. A small-for-gestational-age (SGA) baby girl of 2,150 g with 43.5 cm in length and with a head circumference of 32 cm was born with Apgar scores of 7/9. Except for an episode of hypoglycaemia no other problems developed during the newborn period. Th e mother and the infant were discharged on the second postoperative day. At 30 years of age, 2 years aft er the fi rst delivery and 12 years aft er the Ross procedure, the patient became pregnant again. Th is gestational period was uneventful. Enalapril was stopped and no anticoagulation was used. In the 1st-trimester of pregnancy, the echocardiography revealed a mild dilatation of the aorta (34 mm) and ascending aorta (38 mm) with mild aortic and pulmonary insuffi ciency. She tolerated the pregnancy period well, and at 39 weeks ' gestation, she had a repeat caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia aft er a course of antibiotic prophylaxis for subacute bacterial endocarditis. She delivered a baby boy of 2,760 g with 47 cm in length with a head circumference of 35 cm with Apgar scores of 9/10. Both the mother and the newborn were discharged on the second postoperative day. At 2 months aft er this caesarean delivery, the echocardiography revealed a mild dilatation of the aorta (36 mm) and ascending aorta (39 mm) with mild aortic and pulmonary insuffi ciency. Aft er 1-year of follow-up aft er the second delivery, the mother and children were doing well.
