The proband was the first male child of non-consanguineous healthy parents. He was spontaneously delivered after an uncomplicated pregnancy that was the result of in-vitro fertilization. Birth weight was 3.7 Kg (50th centile), and length was 50 cm (50th centile). At 8 years of age, he was referred to our center because of multiple CALMs (six, ≥5 mm). Examination also revealed several lightbrown lentigines on his face, neck, and thorax. Dysmorphic features included hypertelorism; downslanting palpebral fissures; epicanthus; coarse facial features; and large, thick, low-set ears. Low posterior hairline, blond curly hair, pterygium colli , cubitus valgus, chest deformity , and umbilical herniation were also noted. The boy weighed 25 kg (50th centile), with a height of 126 cm (50th centile) and a cephalic perimeter of 55 cm (95th centile). No genital or hearing anomalies were detected. Based on these features, a clinical diagnosis of NFNS was suspected and the child underwent a multidisciplinary follow-up, as advised for NF1 , including periodic visual assessment . A cranial MRI was performed because of headache; no unidentified bright objects (UBOs) were detected. Lisch nodules and neurofibromas were absent. ECG revealed no abnormalities at the age of 9 years. Because mutations in NF1 are known to be the major molecular event underlying NFNS, molecular genetic analysis of NF1 was performed. However, no NF1 mutations were found. Because of the lack of typical NF1 features (i.e., Lisch nodules and neurofibromas) and elements that suggested a particular RASopathy, a molecular analysis of SPRED1 was launched when he was 11 years of age. No mutations were detected. These negative molecular results led us to reevaluate our initial clinical diagnosis. Thus, we asked to review the child along with both of his parents. The proband's father, who was aged 50 years, came to us first. He had always been referred as healthy, but a history of benign arrhythmia, as well as post-natal onset of growth retardation and peptic ulcer emerged from an in-depth clinical anamnesis. The father had dysmorphic features. Obvious hypertelorism; ptosis and coarse facial features; large, thick ears with creased lobes; low posterior hairline; chest deformity; multiple sparse, dark, small spots and common nevi; a few CALMs; and a large macule on the leg  were detected. No genital problems were present. His height was 166 cm (5th centile), and his head circumference was 60 cm (>95th centile). His father and one of his brothers were reported to share similar facial dysmorphisms without other referred medical problems, such as deafness or cardiac problems. The proband's uncle had also undergone surgery because of unilateral cryptorchidism. Upon examination at the age of 12 years, the proband's CALMs, dysmorphic features ( , D) and macrocephaly were confirmed and stable. However, the lentigines had acquired a pattern of distribution more suggestive of LS and their color was darker than when previously observed ( –F). Thus, we began to suspect LS. An echocardiography revealed mild dilatation of the ascending aorta and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the father and thickening of the intraventricular septum with an ejection fraction (EF) of 70% and mitral valve prolapse in the proband. Mixed mild deafness was demonstrated in the father, but no auditory problems were detected in the proband. Molecular genetic testing of PTPN11 was performed, and a previously described pathological heterozygous mutation c.1403 C > T, p.(Thr468Met), was detected in both the proband and his father. The proband recently underwent an MRI scan of the spine because of thermal and pain hypoestesia of the upper left arm. A syrinx in the cervical spine, extending into the thoracic spine, and a type-1 Arnold-Chiari malformation were detected . All patients gave informed written consent on entering the study, which had been approved by the Second University of Naples, Ethics Committee, in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki.
