A 57-year-old patient with multiple cardiovascular risk factors (hypercholesterolemia, high blood pressure, smoking, and peripheral arterial disease with multiple therapeutic interventions on the iliac, mesenteric, and carotid arteries), followed up for aortic bicuspid valve, was hospitalized for an episode of heart failure, allowing diagnosis of tight aortic stenosis (area, 0.5 cm 2 ; mean gradient, 55 mm Hg) combined with moderate aortic insufficiency. Acute coronary syndrome had occurred 4 years earlier, which had led to coronary angioplasty and stenting of the proximal circumflex artery. At that time, the abnormal origin of this artery as a branch of the right coronary artery, with a retroaortic course, had been identified . Computed tomography described the modified course of the circumflex artery, originating from the proximal right coronary artery, travelling along the commissure between the right and noncoronary cusps, and approximating the aortic annulus across the noncoronary sinus of Valsalva to the roof of the left atrium. Significant calcification of the aortic valve and aortic root were also evidenced. The patient underwent mechanical aortic valve replacement. Cardiopulmonary bypass was established between the right atrium and the ascending aorta, under normothermia. Cardiac arrest was obtained by cold retrograde injection of blood cardioplegia into the coronary sinus. An oblique incision of the ascending aorta in the noncoronary sinus allowed valve resection and annulus decalcification (pseudo-raphe between noncoronary and left cusps). We found ourselves with the impossibility of implanting a 19-mm mechanical prosthesis (surface body area, 1.66 m 2 ), so we decided to enlarge the valvular ring. Sharp dissection of the anomalous circumflex artery (adherent to the aortic wall) allowed us to extend the aortotomy down into the aortic annulus, as described by Nicks and colleagues 5 . A ''tear-drop'' patch of bovine pericardium was fixed to the level of the mitral fibrous ring, and laterally at the level of the open aortic annulus and aortic wall in front of the aberrant circumflex artery , allowing the introduction of a 19-mm mechanical prosthesis and closure of the aortic wall. The course of the intervention was uneventful, without bleeding or ischemic complications (cardiopulmonary bypass, 106 min; aortic crossclamp time, 86 min). The patient left the hospital 1 week later.
