A 9-yr-old girl, known case of rheumatic heart disease presented with complaints of progressive breathlessness for 2 years with recent worsening (NYHA grade II to III), fever and migratory joint pain (bilateral knee) for 10 days. There was history of orthopnea, palpitations and chest pain. There was no history of sore throat, skin rash, abnormal body movements, emotional lability and hemoptysis. She was diagnosed in 2011 with acute rheumatic fever with severe mitral regurgitation, moderate aortic regurgitation and mild tricuspid regurgitation. Supportive treatment was started and she was put on secondary erythromycin (250 mg BD) prophylaxis as she was allergic to benzathine penicillin. During follow-up, good compliance to erythromycin was noted. On examination, child was febrile with a pulse of 110/ min, respiratory rate 48/min, BP-130/50 and raised JVP. There was no pedal edema, clubbing, lymphadenopathy, cyanosis, rash, subcutaneous nodules and features suggestive of infective endocarditis. Cardiovascular examination revealed downward and outward hyperdynamic apex beat and a grade IV pansystolic murmur in the mitral area radiating to the axilla and grade III early diastolic descrescendo murmur in the aortic area. Respiratory system revealed bilateral basal crepitations while hepatomegaly was noted on abdominal examination.On musculoskeletal examination there was no evidence of arthritis. Central nervous system was normal. Investigations revealed hemoglobin of 12.1 g%, total leucocyte count-10,800 mm 3 (with 70% polymorphs), ESR of 50 mm/h, positive ASO (>400U/dL), CRP (6.89 mg/dL), anti DNAse B (471U/mL). ECG showed prolongation of PR interval (0.18sec) and left axis deviation. Throat swab and blood culture showed no growth. Cardiomegaly was evident on Chest X-ray while ECHO revealed dilated LV, pathological severe mitral regurgitation, moderate aortic regurgitation and mild tricuspid regurgitation. Anterior mitral laflet tip was thick (5 mm) with elbow deformity and restricted leaflet motion. There was no pericardial effusion and EF was 65%. A diagnosis of recurrent acute rheumatic fever with congestive heart failure was made. Oral prednisolone was started and tapered after 4 weeks while aspirin was added. She responded and her ESR levels gradually decreased. Since recurrence occurred despite good compliance and adequate dose of erythromycin, serum erythromycin levels was planned but was not available. MIC levels could not be ascertained as the throat culture was negative. Patient was started on secondary prophylaxis of erythromycin albeit at a higher dose (40mg/kg i.e. 250 mg tds).
