A 76-year-old man with a medical history of gastrectomy at the age of 33 years, left nephrectomy at 65 years, and tumor extirpation in the right kidney following the creation of an arteriovenous fistula for hemodialysis at 75 years, visited a cardiologist in our hospital complaining of dyspnea on exertion over the past 2 months. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed moderate aortic valve regurgitation (AR) with an extremely dilated left ventricle and reduced left ventricle ejection fraction of 32.8%. Aortography showed Seller's grade III AR. Consequently, the patient was referred to our department to undergo surgical treatment for AR. His height and weight were 165 cm and 53 kg, respectively. On physical examination, a grade 2/6 diastolic murmur was audible at the third left sternal border. In addition, a bowl-shaped concavity was noted: his sternum and adjacent costal cartilages were posteriorly depressed. Chest X-ray showed scoliosis and cardiomegaly with a cardiothoracic ratio of 59.8% without pulmonary congestion. Chest computed tomography (CT) disclosed cardiac compression and left-sided heart displacement resulting from severe PE with a Haller index of 6.40 . A preoperative pulmonary function test showed moderate restrictive respiratory dysfunction: the forced vital capacity was 64.8% and the forced expiratory volume in 1 second was 71.1%. Surgical treatment for AR and PE was performed in a single-stage operation. First, a midline skin incision was made, and a pectoralis major musculocutaneous (PMM) flap and sternum bone (SB) flap with the left internal thoracic artery and vein were prepared as previously described. 6,7) The SB flap was wrapped with wet gauze and turned over the head, resulting in good exposure of the heart. The left coronary cusp of the aortic valve was particularly shrunken, which induced lack of co-adaptation of the valve . AVR using a 25-mm bioprosthesis was performed under cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). After an uneventful weaning from CPB, the SB flap was returned to its original position and elevated with two titanium plates. Finally, the chest wall was reconstructed with the SB flap and PMM flaps. The total volume of blood loss was 3990 ml. Hemostasis with tranexamic acid and a transfusion (14 units of packed red blood cells, 12 units of fresh frozen plasma)were required. The durations of the CPB, aortic crossclamping, and operation were 171 min, 102 min, and 570 min, respectively. In the intensive care unit, the patient's blood loss gradually decreased and his hemodynamic condition ameliorated with the hemostatic treatment, including a transfusion. Consequently, the endotracheal tube was removed on the fifth postoperative day (POD), but reintubation was required because of hypercapnea (PaCO 2 of 58.5 torr) and difficulty in sputum discharge. With the aid of tube feeding for nutritional management, his cardiopulmonary function gradually ameliorated, and he was weaned from mechanical ventilation on the 14th POD. After gradual rehabilitation for cardiopulmonary function, the patient was discharged on the 56th POD. One year after surgery, the patient is doing well, with implanted plates remaining. Transthoracic echocardiography showed an ameliorated left ventricle ejection fraction of 52.2%, in addition to a correction of the sternal deformity and heart displacement with a Haller index of 3.35 on chest CT .
