The first case was a female patient aged 82 with symptomatic aortic and mitral regurgitation who had already been operated on for ascending aortic aneurysm with a 30EuroSCORE II was 16%. We decided to replace both valves to save surgical time (impaired left ventricular function and redo). Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) options were not discussed because the patient had pure aortic regurgitation without calcifications. The mitral valve was replaced with a 29-mm Perimount™ bioprosthesis (Edwards Lifesciences), while a 21-mm Intuity™ was placed through the vascular graft in an aortic position (implanting time: 9 min) . Aortic cross-clamp time was 130 min (the mitral valve in this redo case was deep and far, and time consuming). The rest of the procedure and the postoperative recovery were uneventful, and the patient left the hospital on postoperative day 10. The echocardiographic control revealed a good haemodynamic status: mean aortic gradient of 12 mmHg and absence of paravalvular leak; mean mitral gradient of 6 mmHg and absence of paravalvular leak. No interference showed on chest radiogram ( and C).A 78-year old female patient suffering from multiple coronary disease, severe mitral regurgitation and aortic valve stenosis with impaired left ventricular function (ejection fraction: 25%). The calculated EuroSCORE II was 8%. We opted for a fast valve treatment to save surgical and ischaemic time (high-risk profile). We did not discuss TAVR options because of the concomitant mitral and coronary disease not treatable with percutaneous approaches. We performed two venous grafts, we placed a 28-mm mitral Physio™ II ring (Edwards Lifesciences) and we implanted a 23-mm Intuity™ following the standard protocol and without interference with the ring (implanting time: 8 min). Finally, we placed the mammary artery on the anterior descending coronary artery. Aortic cross-clamp time was 116 min. The rest of the procedure and the postoperative recovery were uneventful and the patient left the hospital 9 days later. The echocardiographic control revealed good haemodynamic status: mean aortic gradient of 3 mmHg and absence of paravalvular leak; mean mitral gradient of 3 mmHg. The radiogram did not show interference between the valve and the ring .
