A 32-year-old Korean female was referred for progressive symptoms characterized by mild fever (37.8 °C) and dyspnea on exertion. One-month before, she had experienced the first instance of numbness in the left fingers and had recovered without any treatment. The patient was an elementary school teacher with normal appearance. She had given birth to a baby without any difficulties 2 years previously. On admission, a parasternal systolic murmur was revealed by physical examination. Blood test showed mild leukocytosis (14.6 X 10 9 cells/L), elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (52 mm/h), and C-reactive protein (4.64 mg/dl). Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a mean and peak pressure gradient across the aortic root of 75 mmHg and 130 mmHg, respectively, with resultant left ventricular hypertrophy (septal wall thickness = 17 mm; left ventricular posterior wall thickness = 15.5 mm). In addition, three thickened aortic valvular cups without limited movement resulting in mild aortic regurgitation were detected. Aortography showed a focal, hourglass-type supra-valvular aortic stenosis with normal morphology of aortic arch and descending thoracic aorta ( , Additional file 1). Electrocardiogram-gated computed tomographic aortography revealed the more accurate spatial and anatomical relationship of the stenotic ascending aorta and aortic root including the orifice of coronary arteries . Moreover, left ventricular apical aneurysm was found with muralthrombus (Additional file 2) despite the absence of coronary abnormalities on angiography. Consecutive blood cultures were devoid of microorganisms. Under the impression of non-familial sporadic type of supra-valvular aortic stenosis, surgical correction was performed. Through a median sternotomy, cardiopulmonary bypass was established with the use of the right axillary artery for arterial return through a side 8-mm graft and right atrium for venous drainage. The patient was gradually cooled to 25 °C and the distal ascending aorta was cross-clamped. For optimal myocardial protection, cold blood cardioplegia was infused with a retrograde pattern initially and a selective pattern after resection of the diseased aortic segment. Longitudinal aortotomy revealed severe stenoticwrinkling change of ascending aorta just above the dilated orifice of both coronary arteries without discrete sinus of Valsalva . Three cusps of the aortic valve had suffered dismorphic thickening without motion limitation, together with circumferential small aortic annulus. Separate left ventricular apical incision revealed extremely thin walled transmural scar with an intraventricular clot . Once evacuation of the mural thrombus in the left ventricular apex had been completed, the incision was closed with mattress sutures of 3–0 prolene buttressed by felt strips. Because of small aortic annulus with distorted cusps of aortic valve, aortic root replacement with an aortic valve graft (19-mm SJM regent valve; Saint Jude Medical, St. Paul, MN, USA) were performed after aortic root augmentation using Bovine pericardium according to the Manouguian method. Finally, the proximal aortic arch was anastomosed with the distal end of an aortic valved graft under bilateral selective cerebral perfusion through the right axillary artery and a separate perfusion catheter into the left common carotid artery. The patient was discharged without any complications 12 days postoperatively. Histopathologic examination revealed myxoid degeneration and fibrotic change of the diseased aortic wall. Genetic testing for supra-valvular aortic stenosis (fluorescent in situ hybridization test in the search for a microdeletion in the chromosome 7q11.23) was negative. A postoperative transthoracic echocardiogram showed normal mechanical aortic valve function without stenosis. Postoperative 1-year follow-up computed tomographic aortography revealed good contour of prosthetic materials located on the ascending aorta . However, a slightly aggravated stenotic lesion on innominate artery orifice and shrinkage of the entire abdominal aorta were found .
