A 23-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with a diagnosis of MV regurgitation secondary to subacute bacterial infective endocarditis caused by Streptococcus viridans. The diagnosis of GT was previously known in this patient with past history of petechiae, epistaxis, and gingival bleeding in early childhood. A completeblood count including platelets (235,000/mL) and morphology were normal. Routine coagulation screening tests and measurements of coagulation factors and von Willebrand factor were within the reference range. Bleeding time with the Ivy method was 48 min (normal range 4–11 min). A platelet aggregation test showed abnormal responses to adenosine diphosphate, collagen, and epinephrine, but normal agglutination with ristocetin. Unfortunately, we do not have flow cytometry and specific markers to determine the type of GT. Because MV repair was not feasible, a 29-mm St. Jude Medical mechanical prosthesis (St. Jude Medical, Inc., St. Paul, MN, USA) was inserted in the mitral position. Multiple platelet transfusions were required in the operating room and continued for a week. Despite 2000 mL of postoperative bleeding in the first 24 h, the postoperative course in the intensive care unit was uneventful. Oral anticoagulant therapy with 5 mg of warfarin per day was initiated on the 7th postoperative day; the INR was 1.8. Immediate devastating complications including bilateral hemothorax, pericardial effusion, epistaxis, persistent gastrointestinal bleeding, and hematuria were simultaneously observed. A lower dose of warfarin with 2.5 mg per day was attempted with an INR of 1.6, but gastrointestinal bleeding and hematuria were extremely persistent. A decision was made to replace the mechanical valve with a biological prosthesis. The patient underwent a second MV replacement 2 weeks after the first operation. A 29mm St. Jude Medical Epic biological mitral prosthesis was installed. Screening for human leukocyte antigen and platelet antibodies was not available. Recombinant activated factor VII was administered in a single dose of 60 mg kg À1 after a limited transfusion of platelets, fresh frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate, and red cell concentrates immediately after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass. The second postoperative course was uneventful. Postoperative bleeding was 500 mL in the first 24 h. No thrombi were found inside the heart on an echocardiographic study prior to hospital discharge on the 10th day after repeat MV replacement. No need for oral anticoagulation has been observed in this case.
