A 10-year-old female patient with WBS was referred to the pediatric nephrology department because of recently detected E. Siomou (*) : C. Kosmeri : M. Pavlou : A. P. Vlahos :to the pediatric nephrology outpatient clinic (at least three measurements of BP every 6–8 months during a 3-year interval), the most recent measurement being 8 months earlier. The patient had previously been attended to in the pediatric nephrology outpatient's clinic because of her history of nephrocalcinosis. No family history of AHT was reported in first-degree relatives. The diagnosis of WBS had been made at the age of 1.2 years, based on the distinctive facial features: depressed nasal bridge with small upturned nose, long philtrum, wide mouth with prominent lower lip, malar hypoplasia with droopy cheeks, strabismus and a starburst eye pattern, and was established by FISH analysis (deletion at the 7q11.23 chromosome). The child showed moderate intellectual disability [average intelligence quotient (IQ) 48 on WISC III test], attention problems, and a characteristic personality of overfriendliness. Endocrine disturbances were also detected, including hypercalcemia, nephrocalcinosis, and hypothyroidism (low serum T4 and raised TSH concentrations) presenting in infancy, for which she had been receiving thyrohormone replacement. The pediatric endocrinological monitoring was conducted in another hospital, where early normal puberty had also been diagnosed at the age of 7 years, based on presentation with pubic hair of Tanner stage II development, bone age 8 years, with normal hypothalamus/pituitary magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and she was being treated with triptorelin from the age of 9.5 years at a dose of 3.75 mg/4 weeks intramuscularly. Findings on admission were: BP 155/110 mmHg in the right upper limb, heart rate 117/min, body weight 36.5 kg (50th percentile), height 133 cm (10th percentile), a soft systolic cardiac murmur 2/6, and symmetric pulses. The remaining physical examination was normal apart from the phenotypic features of WBS. Renal function, blood electrolyte, thyroid function, and hematological tests were within normal limits and urine analysis was negative for erythrocytes and protein. Retinal findings, electrocardiography and echocardiography imaging, Doppler, and abdominal ultrasound scan were all normal. Plasma renin activity in a supine position was 0.5 ng/ml/h (normal range, 0.2-1.4 ng/ml/h) and serum aldosterone 31.8 ng/dl (normal range, 3–28 ng/dl). Magnetic resonance angiography showed mild narrowing in the proximal left renal artery, but renal arteriography revealed no stenosis. The levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisone in blood, free cortisone in 24-h urine collection, adrenaline, and noradrenaline in blood and 24-h urine collection were within normal limits. The child had close BP monitoring in the pediatric nephrology department, where multiple measurements of BP (both during the day and night) for four consecutive days documented severe AHT (range, 140-155/85-110 mmHg). Ambulatory BP monitoring was not available at that time in our department due to technical reasons. Due to the severe AHT induction of antihypertensive treatment was started with amlodipine in two divided doses of 0.3 mg/kg/24 h, and atenolol at two divided doses of 2 mg/kg/24 h. Ambulatory BP monitoring on the 14th day of antihypertensive treatment revealed mean 24-h systolic/diastolic BP 111/67 mmHg (95th percentile for mean 24-h systolic/diastolic BP: 117/ 75 mmHg), mean daytime and nighttime systolic/diastolic BP 114/69 and 100/61 respectively, nocturnal dipping 12 %, and systolic BP load 30 %, which constitutes AHT stage I . Triptorelin therapy was discontinued 1 year later (total duration of treatment 1.5 years). Ambulatory BP monitoring 3 months after cessation of triptorelin treatment showed normal BP levels with the child on the same anti-hypertensive treatment. Gradually, discontinuation of atenolol and amlodipine was instituted and fully stopped 4 and 6 months later, respectively. Two-year monitoring showed normal BP levels with a range of 105-110/7075 mmHg on multiple measurements, with no further antihypertensive treatment.
