We present the case of a 23-year-old male patient who presented with New York Heart Association functional class III/ IV symptoms and a medical history of arterial hypertension, smoking habit, and Laubry-Pezzi syndrome operated on at six years of age. Findings at the original cardiac surgery included a tricuspid aortic valve with prolapse of the right aortic cusp through the VSD, which was moderately large and was situated just below the right coronary cusp, extending between the right and the noncoronary cusps in a perimembranous position. There was severe aortic regurgitation and no aortic root dilatation. The VSD was closed with a synthetic patch, and a plasty between the left and the right cusps of the aortic valve was performed without significant aortic regurgitation after the initial repair. When the patient presented at 23 years of age, clinical examination evidenced a holodiastolic murmur in the right parasternal location. Echocardiogram showed bicuspid morphology of the aortic valve, with severe aortic regurgitation and mild stenosis. Computed tomography revealed an asymmetric that simultaneously combines the anomalies in the truncal (sigmoid valves) and the conal (conal septum or crista supraventricularis) structures with compromise of the ascending aorta as seen in other congenital heart diseases such as the single ventricle, truncus arteriosus communis, transposition of the great arteries, tetralogy of Fallot, bicuspid aortic valve, or the Marfan syndrome, which, in varying degrees, associate aortic media abnormalities and eventual and progressive aortic root dilatation. 7,8 In the present case, the initial surgical management of the incompetent aortic valve was somewhat unconventional. Bicuspidization of a tricuspid aortic valve is not a common form of repair, because even extreme prolapse and leaflet stretching can usually be treated by a reduction in the free edge of the coronary cusp 9 by the placement of plicating sutures in the prolapsing leaflet in combination with closure of the VSD, thus elevating the annulus, reducing the size of the sinus, and restoring competence of the aortic valve. 10 It is possible, however, in more advanced cases that secondary changes in the form of thickening, asymmetry (size discrepancy among leaflets), and retraction of the free borders of all three cusps may hamper a conventional correction. Although we might be tempted to suggest that patients with Laubry-Pezzi syndrome with aortic dilatation be subjected to a program of follow-up similar to that which is prescribed for patients with bicuspid aortic valve or patients with aneurysms of the sinus of Valsalva, we recognize that Laubry-Pezzi syndrome represents a distinct clinical entity, for which there is no evidence at the present time of abnormal histology or elastic properties of the ascending aortic wall. Certainly, those who may encounter cases such as ours should be motivated to undertake histologic evaluation of aortic wall and aortic sinus tissue. In addition, we believe that larger scale investigations and longitudinal studies should be undertaken to confirm whether the findings observed in our patient are unique, or whether they have been seen late in the course in other patients who present initially with the combination of VSD and aortic valve prolapse.
