A 25-year-old male presented with New York Heart Association Class IV symptoms and severe pulmonary hypertension. He had undergone aortic valvotomy at age 1 month, aortic valve replacement at 6 years, mitral valve replacement at 10 years, and aortic and mitral valve replacements with mechanical St Jude valves with aortic and mitral annulus enlargement at 14 years. Echocardiography demonstrated paravalvar leaks around both prostheses. The leaks were deemed mild to moderate but difficult to quantify because of shielding. Gradients across aortic and mitral prostheses were low, 10 mm Hg and 7.5 mm Hg, respectively. On right heart catheterization, pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) was 15 Wood units (Wu), with a pulmonary artery (PA) pressure of 103/52 mm Hg, mean 72 mm Hg, and a transpulmonary gradient of 50 mm Hg. Pulmonary vascular resistance remained elevated at 16.Over the next month, he deteriorated further and was started on milrinone, and sildenafil was increased, hoping to make heart transplant only possible. However, repeat right heart catheterization after 3 months showed PVR still 15 Wu, transpulmonary gradient of 42 mm Hg, and cardiac index of 1.58 LÁmin À1 Ám À2. He was readmitted to the hospital to complete heart–lung transplant assessment. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed normal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 57%, dilated right ventricle with moderate dysfunction, 1þ mitral regurgitation (MR; maybe underestimated due to shielding) with peak and mean gradients of 27 and 13 mm Hg, respectively. The aortic valve was reported to have 1 to 2þ paravalvular aortic regurgitation (AR) with peak and mean gradients of 15 and 10 mm Hg, respectively. A transesophageal echocardiogram the following day showed very different results: LVEF was 60%, and MR was read as severe 4þ paravalvular leak. The AR was also read as 4þ. Repeat valve surgery was decided. A fifth-time sternotomy was performed. The mitral valve prosthesis was found dehisced corresponding to one-third of annulus circumference, and the aortic valve prosthesis had a 1-cm wide anterior leak. Reusing the previously reconstructed intervalvular fibrosa, the mitral valve was replaced with a 25-mm On-X valve (Life Technologies, Inc, Austin, Texas, USA) and the aortic valve replaced with 23-mm On-X valve. The patient had a relatively smooth postoperative course with manageable pulmonary hypertension responding to treatment, extubated on day 2, intensive care unit stay of 5 days, and hospital stay of 2 weeks. He was managed with milrinone in the operating room and immediately postoperatively. On postoperative day (POD) 3, the milrinone was stopped, but systolic PA pressures increased to 90 to 100 mm Hg. Milrinone was restarted and sildenafil was initiated at a dose of 50 mg twice a day. This was increased to 40 mg three times a day on POD 4, and the following day the milrinone was stopped and PA pressures remained stable (approximately 75/35 mm Hg). Right heart catheterization after 18 months showed PA pressure of 58/23 mm Hg, transpulmonary gradient of 16 mm Hg, PVR of 2 Wu, and cardiac index of 4.01 LÁmin À1 Ám À2. The patient is three years postoperative and has had no readmissions and does not want additional cardiac catheterizations. His breathing ability and energy level are good, has no limitations, and has graduated from college. A 22-year-old woman presented with Shone syndrome, including bicuspid aortic valve, subvalvular and supravalvular aortic stenosis, mitral stenosis, and coarctation of the aorta. The coarctation was repaired at age 11 months. Five years later, she had a 10 mm Hg residual coarctation gradient, moderate supravalvular, valvular, and subvalvular aortic stenosis, mild mitral stenosis, and a positive stress test. She underwent resection of a subaortic membrane and repair of supravalulvar aortic stenosis and an open mitral valvotomy. Subsequently, she developed increasing AR and underwent aortic valve repair with autologous pericardial extension of the aortic cusps at age 16 years. At age 20 years, the patient returned with progressive dyspnea during pregnancy. A limited right heart catheterization demonstrated PVR of 13 Wu on room air and 12 Wu on 100% oxygen. She was treated with vasodilator therapy including hydralazine, nitrates, and carvedilol and delivered a healthy baby via planned C-section. Patient was lost to follow up until thirteen months later when she was hospitalized with group B streptococcal sepsis at which time a transesophageal echocardiogram showed no evidence of endocarditis but severe MR (two regurgitant jets, one central and one suggesting a hole in the anterior leaflet), moderate AR, and evidence of severe pulmonary hypertension. The right ventricle was enlarged withsignificant dysfunction. On repeat catheterization, PVR was 22.8 Wu on room air with good response to both oxygen (PVR 12.6 Wu) and NO (PVR 8.0 Wu), no gradient across the mitral valve, aortic valve, or the coarctation but markedly elevated PA wedge pressure (27 mm Hg) and left ventricular end diastolic pressure (25 mm Hg). She was hospitalized and referred for heart–lung transplant. Based on the severity of the MR, it was decided, after extensive discussions, to offer conventional valve surgery. Preoperatively and on intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography, the AR was deemed not severe enough to justify replacement. On exploration, the patient was found to have complete avulsion of the P1 scallop from the annulus of the mitral valve leaflet. The valve was repaired with an autologous pericardial patch with no residual MR. After protaminization, a pulmonary hypertensive crisis resulted in circulation collapse and required recannulation and return to cardiopulmonary bypass. The mitral valve repair was inspected and found intact, and we decided to replace the aortic valve with a 19-mm On-X mechanical valve. Inhaled NO and milrinone were started in the operating room. She was transferred to the intensive care unit on 100% fraction of inspired oxygen (FIO 2 ), inhaled NO, and significant inotropic support. During the first postoperative week, the patient had pulmonary hypertensive crises, and junctional ectopic tachycardia and ventricular tachycardia were treated with amiodarone. On POD 1, the patient had a coughing episode that resulted in systemic PA pressures. Chemical paralysis and increased sedation were initiated. Inhaled epoprostenol and diuresis were added with good responses. On POD 5, the patient had a second pulmonary hypertensive crisis. Intravenous epinephrine and enteral sildenafil were started. On POD 6, inhaled NO was discontinued, and on POD 7 inhaled epoprostenol was stopped. By POD 8, her pulmonary hypertension was well controlled and her rhythm was stable, so she was extubated. Intensive care unit stay was 13 days and hospital stay 19 days. After discharge, recovery to full functionality was rapid, and repeat echocardiogram and heart catheterization six months postoperatively demonstrated normalized heart function and well-functioning valves and almost normalized pulmonary pressures (33/16 mm Hg, PVR 2.3 Wu on 100% O 2 ).
