A 62-year-old woman came to our hospital because of dyspnea on exertion and a syncopal attack. She had no family history of cardiovascular disease. She had 24-h electrocardiographic monitoring that revealed nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, and she received amiodarone. Transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated severe regurgitation of a tricuspid aortic valve, mild mitral regurgitation, a left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic diameter of 70 mm, and LV ejection fraction of 44%. The LV wall was unusually shown with two layers: a thin compacted external (epicardial) layer; and a much thicker, non-compacted internal (endocardial) layer consisting of a trabecular meshwork with deep endocardial spaces . To confirm the diagnosis, we used multi-detector computed tomography which demonstrated abnormal LV myocardium with a 2-layer structure, and no thrombi in the LV cavity. The abnormal findings were most prominent at the apical segment of the LV, and the lateral segment was involved more progressively than the septal segment. The ratio of the non-compacted layer to the compacted myocardium was 2.67 . The right ventricular myocardium looked normal. No significant lesions were noted on coronary arteriography. After establishing conventional medication to prevent heart failure, including an angiotensin II receptor blocker and a beta blocker, the patient underwent aortic valve replacement with a 23-mm Mosaic Ultra bioprosthetic valve (Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN, USA) in an intraannular position. The aortic crossclamp and cardiopulmonary bypass times were 92 and 121 min, respectively. She was easily weaned from cardiopulmonary bypassand recovered uneventfully. Electrocardiographic monitoring after the operation did not show any nonsustained ventricular tachycardia. She was discharged without any complications on postoperative day 14. The latest follow-up transthoracic echocardiography 2 years after the operation showed trivial mitral regurgitation and improvements in LV ejection fraction to 59% and LV end-diastolic diameter to 46 mm. The ratio of the non-compacted layer to the compacted myocardium was 2.8 .
