Case 1. A 23-year-old Japanese female had multiple lentigines at birth, and the number of lentigines gradually increased as she aged. She developed sensorineural deafness at 2 years of age, and was noted to have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at 12 years of age. Her parents were non-consanguineous, and her family history was unremarkable. Physical examination revealed ocular hypertelorism and multiple light-or dark-brown lentigines of varying sizes over her whole body ( –c). There was no pulmonary stenosis, abnormalities of the genitalia or retardation of growth. Histopathological examination of lentigo on her back  showed a slight degree of acanthosis with an increased amount of melanin deposition in the epidermis . In contrast, histopathological examination of non-lesional skin on her back showed no basal pigmentation . To examine the number and localization of melanocytes, melanocyte marker, melan-A, also known as melanoma antigen recognized by T cells 1 (MART1), was stained. The melan-A staining demonstrated an increased number of melanocytes in the epidermis in the lentigo  compared with that in non-lesional skin . Interestingly, melan-A staining in the sweat glands was observed in both lentigo and non-lesional skin ( , i), suggesting that melanocytes might have existed in the sweat glands in this patient.
A 14-year-old Japanese female had multiple lentigines at birth, which gradually spread over her whole body. Her parents were non-consanguineous, and her family history was not contributory. Physical examination revealed ocular hypertelorism and multiple light-or dark-brown lentigines of varying sizes over her whole body ( –l). An electrocardiogram showed right axis deviation. There was no pulmonary stenosis, abnormalities of the genitalia, retardation of growth and sensorineural deafness. Histopathological examination of lentigo on her back  showed the elongation of rete ridges and pigment accumulation from the basal to upper layers of the epidermis . Melan-A staining showed an increased number of melanocytes in the epidermis . No melanA staining was observed in the sweat glands in the dermis .
