A 72-year-old man with a history of rheumatic heart disease, prior bioprosthetic mitral and aortic valve replacement, severe nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy (left ventricular ejection fraction 5%), and a history of ventricular tachycardia (VT) underwent implantation of a continuous flow LV assist device (LVAD; HeartMate II; Thoratec Corporation) as destination therapy for severe heart failure. The early postoperative period was unremarkable and he had substantial functional improvement with minimal cardiovascular limiting symptoms after postoperative recovery. After ≈3 years on LVAD support, he experienced a series of appropriate implantable cardioverter-defibrillator shocks for sustained VT refractory to antiarrhythmic therapy. He underwent VT ablation targeting the basal LV inferoseptum, but he continued to have recurrent VT. Because VT seemed to originate from a deep septal substrate, he underwent an alcohol septal ablation that was also unsuccessful. A week later, VT was terminated during a second endocardial ablation and was noninducible thereafter. He has had no further sustained VT or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator shocks for 10 months of follow-up. Approximately 4 years after the LVAD implantation, and 6 months after the last VT ablation, he presented with new symptoms of intermittent dizziness, near syncope, and exertional dyspnea. Transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated a relatively improved LV ejection fraction of 25% with septal asymmetry and dynamic obstruction of the LVAD inflow with increased inflow velocities during each native heart systole. He was admitted and underwent repeat contrast echocardiograms to evaluate the obstruction further in varying positions and LVAD RPM settings ( Movies 1–3 in the Data Supplement). A peak systolic velocity of 3.49 m/s was obtained with the patient upright at 9400 rpm. There was no clinical or laboratory evidence of pump thrombosis, including no changes in VAD parameters of power or pulsatility. The plasma lactate dehydrogenase concentration wasRequests for permissions to reproduce figures, tables, or portions of articles originally published Permissions:
