Three patients aged 20, 23, and 26 years old were admitted to our department for shortness of breath (New York Heart Association class III) and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. The transthoracic echocardiogram showed severe mitral stenosis. The first patient had a mitral valve area (MVA) 0.3 cm 2 /m 2 of body surface area (BSA), mean gradient of 15 mmHg, and mild mitral regurgitation. The second patient had an MVA of 0.4 cm 2 /m 2 of BSA, and a mean gradient of 13 mmHg, while the third patient had an MVA of 0.5 cm 2 /m 2 of BSA, and mean gradient of 15 mmHg. All three had a left ventricular ejection fraction >55%. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) was performed in order to exclude left atrial thrombus. The Wilkins scores were 5, 6, and 7 respectively. Percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty was scheduled. The procedure was performed via a femoral approach using an antegrade transseptal modified technique. Three access sites were used: the right femoral vein for the introduction of a vascular introducer sheath with hemostatic valve 16 F (Check-Flo sheath ® , Cook Medical, Indiana, USA), the left femoral artery for the introduction of a pigtail catheter (Cordis, Johnson and Johnson, Miami, FL, USA) into the non-coronary cusp with a 5 F sheath, and the left femoral vein for the pacing electrode of a temporary transvenous pacemaker system placed at the right ventricular apex through a 6F sheath. After a bolus administration of 1000 U heparin, right heart catheterization was performed. Transseptal puncture was performed according to the standard technique. Transesophageal echocardiographic guidance was used to facilitate the anatomic location of the fossa ovalis, the proper positioning of the balloon into the mitral valve, and the early detection of serious complications (i.e. hemopericardium). In addition, after the transseptal dilator had tented the fossa ovalis, a 0.014 inch J-tipped guidewire (SafeSept® Transseptal Guidewire, Pressure Products Medical Supplies, Inc., San Pedro, CA, USA) was used to penetrate the septum. In all three cases, we administered 9000 U of heparin to reduce the risk of a thromboembolic event during the manipulation of catheters and wires in the left atrium, and anticoagulation time was monitored during the procedure to maintain appropriate levels of anticoagulation. The system of the needle, dilator and introducer was advanced over the 0.014 inch guidewire into the left atrium. After the SafeSept® guidewire, needle and dilator had been retracted, a stiff guidewire (Amplatz Super Stiff Guidewire, Boston Scientific, Natick, MA, USA) was advanced through the introducer into a left pulmonary vein. Then, the introducer was replaced with the 12 F FlexCath steerable sheath (Medtronic, Fridley, MN, USA). The use of this steerable catheter allowed us to deflect its tip to face towards the mitral valve orifice. The guidewire crossed the stenotic mitral valve and entered the left ventricle. In the right anterior oblique view, which helps to identify the proper line between the base and the apex, we advanced over the Super Stiff guidewire and through the stenotic mitral valve orifice a highpressure and semi-compliant Cristal balloon (BALT, Montmorency, France) . At this stage we inflated the Cristal balloon using simultaneous short bursts of rapid ventricular pacing (RVP) for temporary arrest of left ventricular ejection, which stabilized the position of the balloon. By progressive sequential inflations of a Cristal balloon catheter, transvalvular mitral gradient decreased for the first patient from 15 mmHg to 6 mmHg, while the MVA improved; it was calculated to be 1.5 cm 2 (as measured invasively) or 1.6 cm 2 (as measured by echo), with mild regurgitation. The second patient had a decrease in the mean transvalvular mitral gra
