A five-year-old boy presented with history of dyspnea on exertion (New York Heart Association III). Physical findings were suggestive of mid-diastolic murmur at the apex with hepatomegaly of 4 cm below the right costal margin. Chest x-ray and electrocardiogram were unremarkable. The preoperative echocardiographic findings were confirmed by precardiopulmonary bypass (pre-CPB) transesophageal echocardiography, which revealed a double orifice mitral valve  with peak gradient of 23 mm Hg and mean gradient of 13 mm Hg. The tricuspid valve appeared morphologically normal but with a peak gradient of 9 mm Hg and mean gradient of 5 mm Hg. There was no other intracardiac anomaly. After median sternotomy and establishing standard CPB at moderate hypothermia, the aorta was cross clamped, cold blood cardioplegia was delivered, and the right atrium was opened. Contrary to the echocardiographic image, a close inspection revealed a double orifice tricuspid valve due to cuspal tissue joining the anterior leaflet with the septal leaflet of tricuspid valve . The subvalvular apparatus was abnormal with short and imperforate chordal apparatus restricting the mobility of the leaflet tissue and thereby producing gradient apparently at the subannular level because the combined annular orifice area appeared adequate. The tricuspid chordae were fenestrated, and papillary muscle splitting was performed to increase the mobility of the leaflet tissue. The fibrous bridge between the leaflets was left intact. The mitral valve was approached after incising the interatrial septum, and the expected double orifice mitral valve was noted . There was an anterolateral orifice and a posteromedial orifice, which were unequal in diameter. There were two papillary muscles, each supplying one of the orifices but the chordae were short and poorly fenestrated, thereby restricting the cuspal mobility, and the stenosis was actually at the subannular level. The chordae were fenestrated, and papillary muscle splitting was performed. The cuspal bridge joining the anterior and posterior mitral leaflets was left intact. Both the valves were checked for any incompetence—using a bulb syringe. Remainder of the operation proceeded as usual with an uneventful weaning off CPB. Postrepair transesophageal echocardiography demonstrated peak gradient of 5 mm Hg and mean gradient of 2 mm Hg across the mitral valve and no gradient across the tricuspid valve. There was no evidence of regurgitation in any of the valves. The postoperative course was uneventful. At four months of follow-up, the patient is in NYHA class I. Follow-up echocardiography at four months revealed trivial mitral and tricuspid regurgitation with no gradients across both the mitral and tricuspid valves.
