A 71-year-old lady had undergone an aortic valve replacement with a 25-mm Carbomedics mechanical valve 16 years earlier for severe aortic stenosis. The postoperative course after her initial surgery was unremarkable, but she presented twice with angina and shortness of breath on exertion 5 and 11 years later. Her symptoms progressively worsened. Coronary angiography after 11 years revealed normal coronary anatomy with no significant disease. Echocardiography showed evidence of severe aortic stenosis with a mean gradient of 32 mm Hg across the mechanical valve and restricted prosthetic valve leaflet mobility, confirmed by fluoroscopy. She was therefore admitted for redo aortic valve replacement. Her comorbidities included hypertension, dyslipidemia, obesity, atrial fibrillation, Crohn's disease, hypothyroidism, and osteoarthritis. Intraoperatively, there were dense pericardial adhesions which were dissected. Following aortotomy and inspection of the prosthetic valve, it was discovered that the base of anterior mitral valve leaflet (AMVL) was severely adherent to the valve ring. As a result, part of the AMVL was removed along with the valve. The AMVL was reconstructed with a pericardial patch, and the aortic root was reconstructed with a patch because removal of the prosthetic valve involved going all the way down to the aorto-mitral curtain. A 27-mm St. Jude Medical mechanical valve was sutured to the annulus, but the reconstructed AMVL was found to be coming in the way of the prosthetic valve. The prosthetic valve was therefore rotated. Following rotation, one of the mechanical valve leaflets dislodged and fell into the left ventricle. It was retrieved. Unfortunately, as an attempt was made to remove the other mechanical valve leaflet, it too fractured and fell into the left ventricle in multiple pieces. Consequently, the left atrium was opened and a thoracoscope was used to meticulously remove all parts of the broken leaflet. At this stage, it was decided to adopt a novel approach owing to the mounting cardiopulmonary bypass and clamp times, and suture a tissue valve to the mechanical valve ring as a final resort. A size 27-mm Mitroflow tissue valve was sutured to the St. Jude Medical valve ring with 2/0 Ti-Cron sutures; the bioprosthetic valve was thus seated on the mechanical valve cage . The rest of the procedure was uneventful. Transesophageal echocardiography at the end of the procedure showed normal seating and gradients across aortic valve, and moderate regurgitation acrossCorresponding author: Omer Ashraf, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, The Townsville Hospital, 100 Angus Smith Drive, Douglas, Qld 4814, Australia. Email: warraicch@yahoo.com the mitral valve, which was acceptable. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit and extubated the next day. Her postoperative course was marked by tachy-brady-arrhythmias with symptomatic pauses, for which she needed a permanent pacemaker. She made a gradual recovery and was discharged 11 days after her surgery. She has been followed up since then and has remained well from a cardiac perspective. A recent transthoracic echocardiogram revealed the prosthetic aortic valve to be well seated with a mean gradient of 12 mm Hg and peak gradient of 24 mm Hg.
