The complex cyanotic CHD was recognized in the first week of life when diagnosed, by echocardiography, with the pulmonary artery atresia with ventricular septal defect (PAA/ VSD), an open ductus arteriosus with diameter of about 2 mm in connection with hypoplastic left pulmonary artery, and numerous major aortopulmonary collateral arteries (MAPCAs) in the right lung. The presence of large MAPCAs in the right lung enabled relatively satisfactory arterial oxygen saturation (SatO 2 ) of 85% and stable general condition, without the need for the introduction of prostaglandin E1. Genetic tests have confirmed 22q11.2 microdeletion. During the follow up, at the age of three months, significant lowering of arterial SatO 2 , to 55%, with a failure to thrive was identified. Heart catheterization corroborated formerly established diagnosis of PAA/VSD with DA diameter of approximately 0.5 mm at its narrowest point. Aortography clearly revealed that the left PA was supplied from DA , the right lung through three MAPCAs , and the right aortic arch with the mirrorimage branching of vessels. On the basis of cardiac catheterization findings, a Cardiosurgical Board decided that an aortopulmonary shunt operation would involve a high level of risk, due to the hypoplastic left pulmonary artery and the left subclavian artery (diameter: 3 mm). Arterial duct stenting was suggested as an alternative palliative treatment. Stenting technique: A 4-month-old female infant, weighing 3.5 kg, was re-catheterized using the trans-femoral approach, under general anesthesia. Antibiotic prophylaxis and Heparin 50 U/kg were administered at the beginning of the procedure. Aortography showed a small, 16 mm long DA extending at a very sharp angle from the left brachiocephalic artery: the narrowest point of DA was approximately 0.5 mm at the pulmonary artery end. The left PA was poorly-developed at just 3 mm in diameter. After placement of the 0.014-inch coronary wire deep in the left PA, a 5 Fr guiding catheter was introduced through the DA to the left PA and, finally, the coronary stent was introduced. An 18 mm long, 4.5 mm diameter stent was chosen in order to cover the whole length of the DA (Cordis, BX VELOCITY 4.50×18 mm). After inflating the balloon catheter, we recorded a final stent diameter of 3.5 mm, which had a mild waist at the junction of DA and the left PA . Removal of deflated balloon from the stent was difficult, as a result of the sharp angle of the guiding catheter, but was successful without stent migration. Control aortography confirmed good stent position, covering the entire length of DA without protrusion into the aorta and with mild protrusion in the lumen of the left PA, without the risk of perforation. The flow through the stented DA was considerably higher, with a significant expansion of the entire left pulmonary vasculature . Arterial oximetry recorded a significant increase of the arterial saturation of 21% (from the SatO 2 of 55% before the intervention to 76% afterwards). Following the intervention, the infant had a 24-hour, continuous infusion of heparin at a dose of 20 IU/kg/hour, and commenced anti-aggregation therapy with aspirin. After the interventional procedure, echocardiography confirmed plentiful, continuous flow through the stented DA, with a maximum pressure gradient of 46 mmHg, and a significant increase in diameter of the left PA. Furtherclinical follow-ups verified an improvement in the child's growth-progress and satisfactory arterial SatO 2 , with a trend of slow gradual reduction over time. One year after DA stenting, heart catheterization was repeated, in which the SatO 2 was 79%, with significant in-stent stenosis of DA (narrowest diameter: 1 mm) and excellent development of the left PA (diameter: 9 mm).
