A 2.5-kg, full-term infant female with prenatal diagnosis of CHD was diagnosed with an unbalanced right ventricular dominant atrioventricular (AV) septal defect with doubleoutlet right ventricle and pulmonary stenosis by postnatal echocardiography. The infant was initially managed without intervention, as it was unclear whether sufficient pulmonary blood flow would persist after spontaneous closure of the ductus arteriosus. Following an initially uncomplicated neonatal course, the infant developed refractory hypoxia on tenth day of life. Systemic oxygen saturations dropped into the 40s and remained in the low 70s despite intubation, sedation, paralysis, and initiation of prostaglandins. The child was taken to the operating room for placement of an aortopulmonary shunt to augment pulmonary blood flow. A 3-mm right modified Blalock-Taussig shunt was placed via a median sternotomy without the use of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), and the ductus arteriosus was ligated. The patient was maintained on mechanical ventilation and sedation postoperatively. Oxygen saturations on the first night ranged between 80% and 90%. No anticoagulation was used intraoperatively or postoperatively as is the usual practice within the institution until all chest tubes are removed on aortopulmonary shunts placed without the use of CPB. On the first postoperative day, she was noted to have a decrease in her oxygen saturation back into the 70s which was unresponsive to ventilator management or supplemental oxygen. A transthoracic echocardiogram showed limited visualization of blood flow through the shunt. The child was subsequently taken to the hybrid cardiac catheterization laboratory where occlusion of the shunt was confirmed. After a discussion regarding catheter-based intervention on the shunt, surgical exploration was chosen within the hybrid cardiac catheterization laboratory with the capability of repeated angiograms upon completion. Thrombosis was visualized in the previously placed shunt. The patient was administered 80 units/kg of unfractionated heparin, and an initial activated clotting time (ACT) greater than 400 seconds was measured. The clot was removed, and the shunt was revised. After release of the clamp on the shunt, little improvement in systemic oxygenation or end-tidal carbon dioxide measurements was noted. The shunt was reexplored and found to have thrombosis within the lumen again. The initial shunt was subsequently removed and a 3-mm central shunt from the ascending aorta to the right pulmonary artery was placed. Improvement in the systemic oxygenation was noted after release of the clamp on the central shunt. An angiogram on completion was concerning for proximal obstruction of the shunt. The proximal anastomosis was revised with improvement in the systemic saturation to the mid 90s after removal of the clamp. After completion of the surgical revision, an angiogram demonstrated unobstructed shunt flow. The ACT was 366 seconds at the conclusion of the central shunt revision. No further heparin was administered beyond the one loading dose. The AV nodal block was noted during positioning of catheters for the final angiogram, and pacing leads were applied for temporary pacing. The patient recovered sinus rhythm approximately two hours later. Upon readmission to the cardiac intensive care unit, the patient was continued on sedation and mechanical ventilation. Her oxygen saturations dropped to the low 70s within minutes of arrival. A transthoracic echocardiogram failed to demonstrate patency of the central shunt. Despite the hypoxia, the patient had adequate measures of oxygen delivery and endorgan function with medical management to control oxygen consumption. A hematologic workup was initiated given the recurrent shunt thrombosis, and the patient continued to have oxygen saturations in the low 70s. The antithrombin activity level was found to be 0.39 U/mL (normal mean + standard deviation on day of life 5 is 0.67 + 0.13 U/mL 1 ). The patient was maintained on a heparin infusion, and 150 units (60 units/kg) of antithrombin concentrate (Thrombate III; Grifols, Los Angeles, California) were administered. The antithrombin activity level increased to 1.11 U/mL, and the heparin anti-Xa level was 0.57 IU/mL (targeted range 0.3-0.7 IU/mL). The following morning the antithrombin activity level decreased to 0.66 U/mL, and the heparin anti-Xa level was lower (0.29 IU/mL) on the same heparin infusion rate. An infusion of antithrombin concentrate was started with a goal to maintain antithrombin levels near 1.0 U/mL. The highest level measured was 2.08 U/mL, and within two days the level stabilized near 1.0 U/mL on an infusion rate of 2 to 4 units/kg/h. The heparin anti-Xa levels also stabilized in the targeted range on a heparin infusion of 26 to 32 units/kg/h. Three days after the patient's last attempted aortopulmonary shunt revision, after achieving stable doses of both antithrombin and heparin, the patient was taken back to the operating room for a new 3-mm central shunt from the ascending aorta to the right pulmonary artery with the use of CPB. The perioperative course was uneventful. The antithrombin infusion was held for six hours, and the heparin infusion was held for eight hours while significant perioperative bleeding subsided. The sternum was left open for the first night as a precaution. The sternum was subsequently closed the next morning without complication. She was extubated three days after the shunt revision, and the antithrombin and heparin infusions were continued until postoperative day nine. Her antithrombin levels were followed and remained above 0.62 U/mL after discontinuation of supplementation. She was maintained on oral aspirin and transitioned to subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin until the time of her bidirectional superior cavopulmonary anastomosis palliation at four months of age. A prothrombotic workup including antithrombin activity, factor VIII activity, protein C, protein S, factor V Leiden, prothrombin gene 20210, lupus anticoagulant, and anticardiolipin antibody was measured at the time of the thrombosis and repeated at four months of age while on aspirin and lowmolecular-weight heparin. The only abnormality was the low initial antithrombin activity level. The antithrombin level at four months of age without supplementation for over three months was 0.85 U/mL, making the diagnosis of congenital antithrombin deficiency unlikely.
