A 90-year old female underwent BAV at another hospital for symptomatic AS with a calculated aortic valve area of 0.25 cm 2. BAV was chosen because of the surgical risks associated with her advanced age and porcelain aorta. Post-procedural echocardiography showed severe aortic regurgitation because of injury to the right coronary cusp (RCC) of the aortic valve, and severe mitral regurgitation because of rupture of the chordae tendineae of the P1 component of the posterior mitral leaflet ( and B). As the preprocedural echocardiography examination did not show significant valvular regurgitation, the new regurgitation was thought to have resulted from the BAV procedure. The patient was initially treated conservatively, but her heart failure worsened. Mechanical ventilation was started and she was transferred to our hospital by helicopter for consideration of TAVI or surgery. On arrival, she was haemodynamically unstable and needed percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) to maintain her circulation. TAVI was denied because of the severe mitral regurgitation, and urgent surgical treatment was planned. A median sternotomy was performed. CPB was established by cannulation of the left femoral artery and the superior and inferior vena cava. The ascending aorta was not suitable for clamping because of severe calcification . Short-term moderate hypothermic circulatory arrest was planned for decalcification of the aorta, as previously described . CPB was started with moderate hypothermia (29°C), and decalcification of the aorta was performed under circulatory arrest with retrograde cerebral perfusion. The decalcification focused on the aortic crossclamping site, aortic suture line and sinotubular junction. No local repair of the aortic wall was needed. After aortic cross-clamping, the injured valves were observed. In the aortic valve, the RCC was almost detached from the annulus on the side adjacent to the non-coronary cusp . In the mitral valve, the chordae tendineae of the P1 component were ruptured . Mitral valve repair with artificial chordae was performed without mitral annuloplasty, because of severe mitral annular calcification . Aortic valve replacement (AVR) was performed using a 21-mm bioprosthetic valve, followed by tricuspid valve annuloplasty using a 26-mm annuloplasty ring for functional severe tricuspid regurgitation. The patient was weaned off CPB without the need for percutaneous CPB. The CPB time was 183 min, circulatory arrest time was 16 min, aortic cross-clamping time was 134 min and operation time was 297 min.Continuous haemodiafiltration was needed after the operation for the treatment of anuria with progressive metabolic acidosis. The patient's renal function subsequently improved, and, on day 4, the continuous haemodiafiltration was stopped and she was extubated. There was no neurological or major organ dysfunction. Postoperative echocardiography showed preserved left ventricularfunction with no significant valvular regurgitation, and the patient was transferred to another hospital for rehabilitation on the 8th postoperative day.
