A man underwent a Bentall procedure for annuloaortic ectasia and severe aortic regurgitation at 43 years of age. He was diagnosed with Marfan syndrome because of lens dislocation, pectus carinatum, a highly arched palate, and tooth crowding. Seventeen years later, he developed an aneurysm in both orifices of the coronary artery and underwent ascending aortic replacement with coronary artery reconstruction (Cabrol procedure). The previous operation did not involve axillary artery cannulation. At 71 years of age, he noticed a pulsating mass in each axilla. Upon examination, his systemic blood pressure was 130/78 and 140/80 mm Hg in the right and left upper arms, respectively, and pulses in both radial arteries were easily palpated. Computed tomography revealed large spindle-shaped axillary aneurysms in the first to second parts of the axillary artery (length Â diameter: right: 80 Â 39 mm; left: 103 Â 45 mm; ). No thrombi were detected. The patient underwent surgery for both aneurysms. Under general anesthesia, transverse infraclavicular incisions were made through the clavipectoral fascia to expose the axillary arteries and aneurysms. After heparinization, both proximal and distal axillary arteries were clamped. Each aneurysm was opened using a longitudinal incision, and the axillary artery was transected at normal sites proximal and distal to the aneurysm. The axillary arteries were reconstructed by end-to-end anastomosis using an 8-mm-diameter gelatin-sealed, ringed, conventional-warp knitted polyester vascular graft (Gelsoft; Vascutek, Inchinnan, Scotland). The postoperative course was uneventful.Corresponding author: Hiroshi Ito, MD, Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Saiseikai Shimonoseki General Hospital, 8-5-1, Yasuoka, Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi 759-6603, Japan. Email: h-ito@simo.saiseikai.or.jp with cystic medial necrosis, disruption, and disappearance of smooth muscle cells and elastic media fibers. Alcian-blue staining detected acidic mucopolysaccharides in the media .
