A 78-year old man with hypertension was admitted with NYHA functional class IV dyspnoea. He had a history of aortic root and ascending aorta replacement using a 25-mm stentless bioprosthesis (Prima Plus, Edwards) and a 26-mm Hemashield graft for severe aortic regurgitation and aortic root aneurysm 12 years ago. Echocardiography revealed severe aortic regurgitation and mild-to-moderate mitral regurgitation. Left ventricular ejection fraction was 49% and systolic/diastolic left ventricular dimension was 63 mm/48 mm, respectively. After pleural effusion drainage and diuretics therapy, dyspnoea improved to NYHA functional class III. To avoid the surgical mortality and morbidity of conventional redo-aortic root replacement, we planned aortic valve implantation of a sutureless bioprosthesis (Perceval S bioprosthesis, Sorin Biomedica Cardio Srl, Sallugia, Italy). Entering through the median redo-sternotomy, severe adhesion around the previous aortic root graft was encountered . Transverse aortotomy was performed on the Hemashield graft above the homograft suture line. Commissure rupture and leaflet tear of the left coronary and right coronary cusp were found. After removal of all three leaflets of the stentless bioprosthesis, a severely calcified aortic root was also noted. Aortic valve replacement using a medium-size Perceval S bioprosthesis was performed without complications . Cardiac ischaemic and cardiopulmonary bypass time was 40 and 83 min, respectively. Extubation, transfer to ward and discharge took place on postoperative day 1, 2 and 21, respectively. Heart failure management using diuretics and intravenous dobutamine infusion extended the patient's hospital stay. There was no paravalvular leakage on echocardiography at discharge. Mean transvalvular pressure gradient was 29 mmHg, and left ventricular ejection fraction was 40%. In 3-month follow-up echocardiography, mean transvalvular pressure gradient was 21 mmHg and left ventricular ejection fraction was 47%. At 4-month follow-up, the patient is in good condition with NYHA functional class I.
