A 65-year-old woman with a 5-year history of hypertension and depression was scheduled for laparoscopic cholecystectomy under general anesthesia. Anesthesia was induced with propofol, and the airway was secured with a size #3 ProSeal laryngeal mask airway (PLMA). Anesthesia was maintained with desflurane at 4% in an oxygen–air mixture (FiO 2 = 50%), and analgesia was achieved by continuous infusion of remifentanil at a rate of 0.16-0.24 μg · kg-1 · min-1 supplemented with fentanyl to a total of 0.4 mg. Muscle relaxation was attained with intermittent rocuronium. Oxygen saturation (SpO 2 ) was kept at 99–100%, and blood pressure was relatively stable but fluctuated between 140/40 and 90/40 mmHg. The patient's heart rate (HR) was 65–80 beats per minute during anesthesia. Surgery took 122 minutes, without measurable blood loss. A total of 1475 ml of crystalloid solution was infused intraoperatively. The anesthetic course was uneventful until the end of surgery. Several minutes after the end of surgery and having confirmed spontaneous respiration, 200 mg of sugammadex was administered intravenously to reverse the neuromuscular blockade. Although spontaneous respiration resumed under 100% oxygen, SpO 2 decreased to 80%, with an increase in arterial pressure to 180/100 mmHg. The attending anesthesiologist, who suspected that a poorly fitted PLMA was the cause of hypoxemia, replaced the size #3 PLMA with a size #4 PLMA, and there was a temporary increase in SpO 2 to 92%. The PLMA was removed, and the patient was transferred to the recovery room with oxygen at 6 L/min via face mask. Upon arrival at the post-anesthesia care unit, the patient was calm but still had a low SpO 2 of 88%. Her blood pressure was 160/85 mmHg and her HR was 81 beats per minute. SpO 2 increased to 92% soon with high-flow oxygen via face mask at a concentration of 60%, but it remained in the range of 90–93% with a smooth respiration at 18 breaths per minutes. Her arterial blood gases were pH 7.354, pCO 2 47.8 mmHg, pO 2 53.5 mmHg and base excess +0.5 mmol/liter. A portable chest radiograph showed bilateral hilar pulmonary infiltrates consistent with pulmonary edema, a normal cardiac silhouette, and air in the stomach . A nasogastric tube was placed to deflate the distended stomach. Bedside transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) revealed a hypercontractile left ventricle, no right ventricular dilatation, and no segmental wall motion abnormalities; however, slight mosaic flow signals in the left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) and a posteriorly directed slight jet of mitral regurgitation (MR) were noted on color-flow Doppler mapping (CFD) . Suspecting the presence of SAM, isosorbide dinitrate was sprayed under the patient's tongue at a dose of 2.5 mg to induce vasodilation. The MR jet in the posterior direction and the mosaicpattern LVOTO then increased significantly, while blood pressure decreased to 78/42 mmHg  (Additional file 1: Video 1 a, b). We could not measure LVOT velocity, because parallel alignment with the continuous Doppler signal to the blood flow in the LVOT was not possible. Based on a diagnosis of dynamic MR and LVOTO secondary to SAM, we intravenously administered 0.2 mg of phenylephrine twice and initiated rapid infusion of 500 mL of hydroxylethyl starch over the course of an hour and continuous infusion of a short-acting beta blocker. The patient's blood pressure returned to 152/68 mmHg, and SpO 2 increased to 97–99% with an oxygen mask at a concentration of 40%. She was cared for overnight in the intensive care unit uneventfully without recurrence of hypoxemia, and transferred to the ward the next day. The bilateral hilar infiltrate had disappeared on the chest radiograph taken the next day. Troponin T and BNP at the post-anesthesia care unit were slightly increased to 0.012 ng/mL (normal <0.014 ng/mL) and 19.0 pg/mL (normal <18.4 pg/mL), respectively, suggesting slight myocardial injury. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)  (Additional 2: Video 2) performed 4 days after surgery, as well as transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), showed chordal SAM with mild MR and LVOTO at rest. The imaging showed some protrusion of the basal septal wall toward the LVOT. The peak pressure gradient through the LVOT was 20 mmHg on TEE. Echocardiographic measurement was performed by TEE to assess theanatomical factors that contributed to SAM . The coaptation point of the mitral leaflets was 17 mm, shorter than the threshold value (25 mm), indicating an anteriorly displaced coaptation point, although other measurements did not reach threshold values. The patient is now regularly checked upon, and is taking 5 mg of oral bisoprolol fumarate per day.
