Fetal echocardiography at 33 weeks' gestation diagnosed a female fetus with pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum (PAIVS), hypoplastic right ventricle (RV) and tricuspid valve, and a patent ductus arteriosus. At 39 weeks' gestation, the baby was delivered by cesarean section (birth weight 2.5 kg; height 40.8 cm). Immediately after birth, she was mildly cyanotic and the percutaneous oxygen saturation was 84% with inhalation of room air. An infusion of prostaglandin E1 (3.5 ngÁkg À1 Ámin À1 ) was started to prevent ductal shock due to acute occlusion of the ductus arteriosus. Systolic hypotension (40 mm Hg) and sinus tachycardia (170 beatsÁmin À1 ) had been sustained from immediately after birth. On postnatal day 2, cardiac catheterization was performed under deep sedation. There was marked suprasystemic RV pressure; the RV pressure was 105/14 mm Hg, left ventricular pressure was 66/9 mm Hg, and mean right atrial pressure was 3 mm Hg. The tricuspid valve diameter was 54% of the normal value and the RV volume was only 20% of the normal value. Sinusoidal communication was ruled out. Right ventriculography showed absence of the trabecular and infundibular portions of the RV . The pressure gradient across the aortic valve was 16 mm Hg, and post-stenotic dilatation of the ascending aorta was demonstrated angiographically . We judged that moderate aortic valve stenosis was present. Subsequent circulatory shock developed on postnatal days 4 and 10, and uncontrollable circulatory instability on day 19 necessitated an urgent first surgical palliation. A median sternotomyDepartment of Cardiovascular Surgery, Kinki University School of Medicine, Nara Hospital, Nara, Japan was performed with the patient under general anesthesia in a supine position. Following dissection of the great arteries, cardiopulmonary bypass was established using ascending aortic and right atrial cannulation. After ligation and division of the ductus arteriosus, cardiac arrest was achieved by cold crystalloid cardioplegia. Initially, an oblique incision was made in the ascending aorta and the aortic valve was inspected. The aortic valve was bicuspid with a raphe at the center of the anterior cusp. Each leaflet was slightly thickened, and bilateral commissures were fused . Bilateral commissurotomy and slicing of the free margin of each leaflet were performed using a microscalpel, paying careful attention to avoid injuring the valve structure. A central shunt between the ascending aorta and main pulmonary artery was instituted using a small polytetrafluoroethylene tube (diameter 3.5 mm). Weaning from extracorporeal circulation was uneventful. The duration of cardiopulmonary bypass was 126 min and the aortic crossclamp time was 56 min. Extubation was performed 6 days after the operation. The patient was discharged 72 days after the first palliation, without significant complications. Cardiac catheterization at 5 months after the first palliation showed no pressure gradient across the aortic valve and no aortic regurgitation. Because the first palliation appeared to be successful, second-stage palliation was performed with a bidirectional cavopulmonary shunt and ascending aortic narrowing when the patient was 5-months old. The final Fontan completion was carried out when she was 18-months old. Cardiac catheterization 1 year after Fontan completion showed normal aortic valve function without regurgitation. The mean central venous pressure was 10 mm Hg .
