A 79-year-old male patient was admitted to our hospital for a prolonged episode of angina at rest in July 2010. He had a history an inferior myocardial infarction in 1996 for which coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) was performed using the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) on the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD), a saphenous vein graft (SVG) on the posterior descending of the right coronary artery (RDP) and a SVG on the diagonal branch of the left anterior descending coronary artery. In 2003 a carotid endarterectomy was performed for severe asymptomatic stenosis of the left internal carotic artery. Other comorbid conditions were arterial hypertension, dyslipidemia and renal failure. On admission, coronary angiography showed patency of the bypasses. A severe aortic stenosis was revealed by transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) with a Doppler peak gradient of 71 mmHg, a Doppler mean gradient of 43 mmHg and an aortic valve area (AVA) of 0.8 cm 2 .The LV was hypertrophic (end-diastolic diameter of 46 mm, septum of 14 mm and posterior wall of 14 mm) with normal systolic function (LV EF 60%) and disturbed diastolic function grade one. A stress echocardiography confirmed the diagnosis of severe aortic stenosis with an AVA of 0.8 cm 2. The patient's status was discussed in a multidisciplinary team, including cardiologists, geriatricians and cardiac surgeons. The peri-operative morbidity and mortality was considered too high: Logistic euroSCORE1 58%, euroSCORE1 15, history of CABG with patent bypasses and multiple comorbid conditions. Therefore, the patient was considered to be a good candidate for transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) by the heart team. Because of the severity of his complaints, a percutaneous transluminal aortic valvoplasty (PTAV) was first performed with a 20 mm balloon. During the procedure a complete left bundle branch block developed. A month later, the patient received a dual chamber cardiac pacemaker (DDD) in preparation for the TAVI because of the persisting left bundle branch block. In November 2010, the TAVI procedure was performed and the implantation of the prosthetic aortic valve (CoreValve 26 mm) was uncomplicated. Clindamycin, 600 mg tid was administered for prophylaxis because of penicillin allergy. TTE showed a normal function of the prosthetic valve with a minimal leakage and limited Doppler peak gradient of 25 mmHg. The patient was discharged from the hospital after an uneventful post-procedure observation. infective endocarditis, the patient underwent a TEE which showed that a remarkable decrease of the size of the vegetation (6x6 mm) and laboratory results showed a normal CRP level. Two weeks later, a repeat TEE showed further reduction of vegetation on the prosthetic valve . The patient was discharged after 6 weeks of IV treatment. As the pacemaker and leads were still in place, it was decided to administer prolonged suppressive oral antibiotic treatment. Clindamycin 300 mg tid (minimum inhibitory concentration, MIC of 0.064 mg/l) and rifampicin 600 mg bid (MIC of 0.008 mg/l) was administered for a total duration of 6 months. A TEE performed 8 months after the initial diagnosis showed complete disappearance of the vegetation and up to the present  the patient is functioning in NYHA class I-II.
