A 61-year-old male with HFH had been treated with LDL apheresis for 26 years. He presented with syncope and chronic congestive heart failure. Echocardiography revealed the progression of AS with a peak pressure gradient (PG) of 125 mmHg, mean PG of 76 mmHg, an aortic valve area of 0.36 cm 2 and moderate aortic regurgitation. The diameters of the aortic annulus, sinus of Valsalva, and sino-tubular junction (STJ) were 17, 25, and 17 mm, respectively. Computed tomography showed the severe calcification of the whole aortic root with protrusion of the calcified plate at the STJ . Coronary angiography showed an occlusion in the right coronary artery. During surgery, epiaortic echography demonstrated a heavily calcified aorta and a mobile plaque on the posterior wall of the ascending aorta, so extracorporeal circulation (ECC) was established between a graft anastomosed to the right axillary artery and the bicaval cannulae. At first, the great saphenous vein was anastomosed to the right coronary artery with the heart beating. Under deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA), retrograde cerebral perfusion was initiated via the superior vena cava. The ascending aorta was incised, and cardioplegic solution was delivered to the left coronary artery and the great saphenous vein to the right coronary artery. The aorta was transected just proximal to the brachiocephalic artery without aortic crossclamping. A 24 mm one-branched vascular graft was anastomosed to the aortic stump, and ECC was restartedvia a branch of the graft. The calcified plate at the STJ protruded so as to narrow the aortic lumen to 17 mm . Decalcification of the STJ was carried out using a Cavitron Ultrasonic Surgical Aspirator (CUSA). The aortic valve was severely calcified, as was the tricuspid. The cusps were removed, and the annular calcification was removed by a CUSA. The aortic annulus was too narrow to implant an adequate-sized prosthesis, so the annulus was incised on the intervalvular fibrous trigone. The aortic root was enlarged by sewing a two-ply bovine pericardial patch from the incised annulus to the STJ . A St. Jude Medical regent valve (17 mm; St. Jude Medical, Inc., St. Paul, Minn) was implanted on the enlarged annulus. The graft was anastomosed to the proximal aorta just above the STJ. Finally, the great saphenous vein was anastomosed onto the graft. The patient was then successfully weaned from ECC. The period of DHCA, ECC, aortic cross-clamp, operation was 31, 282, 179 and 515 min, respectively. The lowest rectal temperature was 20.5 °C. He recovered favorably after the operation without any cerebrovascular complications. Post-operative echocardiography revealed that a peak PG from the left ventricle to the aorta was 19 mmHg, a mean PG was 7 mmHg and an aortic valve area was 1.37 cm 2. Post-operative 3D-CT demonstrated well-enlarged aortic root and patent saphenous vein graft . One year later after surgery, he is in New York Heart Association functional class I.
