A 5-year-old female patient was admitted to the hospital with atypical chest pain and dyspnea on exertion. The patient had a known diagnosis of SVAS and a four-year history of progressively increasing transaortic gradients. On physical examination, a systolic ejection murmur (grade 4/6) was heard at the right second intercostal space with radiation to the right cervical region. Other physical examination findings were normal. Electrocardiography showed sinus rhythm with LV hypertrophy, and laboratory parameters were normal. A three-cusped aortic valve without regurgitation was revealed by echocardiography, from which peak gradient of 170 mm Hg and mean gradient of 75 mm Hg were estimated. The measurements of the aortic root, the STJ, and the LCAwere 12 mm, 7 mm, and 5 mm, respectively. Diffuse hypoplasia of the right pulmonary artery (3.6 mm) was detected with a gradient of 78 mm Hg. Left ventricular shortening fraction was 61%. Computerized tomography angiography (CTA) was performed to further delineate the anatomy of the SVAS. The patient's demographics are summarized in . The patient underwent an open heart operation with standard aortic and bicaval cannulation and moderate hypothermia. Isothermic intermittent blood cardioplegia was administered into the ascending aorta for induction and then selectively into the coronary artery ostia for maintenance of cardiac arrest. Extended aortoplasty using Brom's method (three sinus reconstruction techniques with bovine pericardial patches) was performed. The right pulmonary artery was augmented from the bifurcation to the hilum with a patch of glutaraldehyde-treated autologous pericardium. After removal of the aortic cross-clamp, severe LV dysfunction was observed. The aortic cross-clamp was reapplied and blood cardioplegia was reinstituted. The reconstructed aorta was reopened. Folding of a redundant patch onto the LCA ostium was suspected. The patch that was thought to be causing obstruction of the LCA ostium was revised by downsizing it, and the aortotomy was closed. After removing the cross clamp, LV dysfunction persisted. The cross clamp was applied for the third time. First, the aortotomy incision was extended posteriorly toward the LCA ostium. Then it was extended through the ostium and out onto the LCA to its bifurcation. A tailored patch of autologous pericardium fixed in glutaraldehyde was sutured in place with continuous 7-0 monofilament suture, according to the technique originally described by Hitchcock . 7 The aortotomy was closed. Sinus rhythm and LV contractions resumed immediately after removal of the aortic cross-clamp. The patient was successfully weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with inotropic support. Total CPB time and cross-clamp time were 373 and 247 minutes, respectively. The postoperative course was uneventful and the patient was discharged on postoperative day 14, on a medical regimen including low dose of aspirin, enalapril, and a diuretic. The preoperative CTA images were reevaluated for the presence of LCA stenosis. A three-dimensional reconstruction revealed critical LCA stenosis, which had not been appreciated previously . from CPB because of poor LV function. Early postoperative course was uneventful while still on ECMO support. Repeated echocardiographic examinations showed improvement in the LV function, and ECMO support was discontinued 48 hours after the operation. The patient was extubated on postoperative day 5 and discharged on postoperative day 25 without any sequelae. Echocardiographic examination before discharge showed LV shortening fraction of 42%, a 13 mm Hg residual gradient in the supravalvar region, and mild to moderate aortic regurgitation. The boy remained asymptomatic over six months of follow-up. Our protocol for long-term follow-up of patients with SVAS is to perform echocardiography every three months and computer tomography at the end of the first year. At the second year, we are planning to perform echocardiography every six months. If computed tomography is not satisfactory, cardiac catheterization with coronary and aortic angiography might be done. These two patients' long-term follow-up data are summarized in . For the operations performed on these two patients, anesthesia was induced with fentanyl, thiopental, and midazolam intravenously and maintained with sevoflurane and intravenous fentanyl. Muscle relaxation was obtained with intravenous rocuronium. Fortunately, induction of anesthesia in both instances was uneventful.
